MEDICAL: nanites

Submicroscopic robots originally designed to perform medical functions within the bloodstream of a living organism. Such functions could encompass intra-cellular surgery, eliminating individual disease cells, or removing clotted material from a blood vessel, and more. Manufactured with gigabytes of mechanical computer memory in Dakar, Senegal, nanites were designed for inner-nuclei exposure only during cellular surgeries, and were therefore kept in a nonfunctional state when not in use. 
While onboard the U.S.S. Enterprise-D in 2366, Acting Ensign Wesley Crusher was conducting experiments in nanite interaction when his subjects suddenly went awry, resulting in the Federation's creation of sentient and self-replicating nanites. During their early explorations, the newly developed nanites interfered with vessels onboard systems which jeopardized a landmark astrophysics experiment being conducted by Doctor Paul Stubbs. Several developing nanites were unwittingly destroyed before being recognized as sentient life-forms. Once the level of their development was discovered, however, the nanites were willing to negotiate, and were finally granted colonization rights to planet Kavis Alpha IV. 
Nanites programmed for destructive purposes were also briefly considered by U.S.S. Enterprise-D personnel as a possible defense during the Borg offensive of 2367. This plan was abandoned due to the length of time required for the nanites to have an effect, which would have been weeks after the Borg attack of planet Earth. Alternately the Borg Collective do have engineering "nanoprobes" as their version of nanites. These small devices are capable of repairing both versions of the cybernetic being, biological and mechanical aspects. They are highly adaptive, self replicating, and highly communicable. 
In the Mirror Universe Captain Jean-Luc Picard used nanites as weapons by placing them in key areas of the ship and instructing them to kill his targets. 

Reference: Evolution, Dark Mirror 
Information provided by:
The Continuum, www.startrek.com, @2002 2006 CBS Studios, Paramount Pictures
Star Trek Novel Encyclopedia Group, www.stneg.org, @2006 Deb J S
