CHEMISTRY: tetryon

Tetryons are elementary particles which can only exist "for any length of time" in subspace, being unstable in normal space. Since they can only exist in subspace the presence of tetryon radiation can be indicative of an intrusion of subspace into normal space, ie the formation of a subspac rift. In 2369 Tetryons were discovered on board the Enterprise-D, helping to prove that an alien race living within a subspace domain was abducting members of the crew. Tetryons can be damaging to equipment, and have been used on occasion to disable phaser weapons. A Tetryon compositor is part of at least some Romulan cloaking devices, and these particles are sometimes radiated by cloaked Warbirds. Coherent Tetryon beams were used by the Caretaker to scan over galactic distances. Tetryon plasma emits multiflux gamma radiation, causing it to disrupt subspace. In an alternate reality, Ensign Harry Kim designed the runabout U.S.S. Yellowstone, which was equipped with tetryon-plasma warp nacelles. 
A field of subatomic particles can be formed when a metaphasic shield is hit by a phased ionic pulse. Tetryon particles in the body tissue of Jo'Bril helped proved that sabotage was involved in the failure of a metaphasic shield test in 2369. 
Tetryon fields can also occur naturally and can be a hazard to warp-driven craft. An unusually intense field was located in the sector near the Hekaras system, making the Hekaras Corridor the only safe navigational route for that region. In 2370 the crew of the U.S.S. Enterprise-D discovered that the areas where tetryon fields were dense were also susceptible to warp field effect, and their use had to be limited to essential travel only.
Tetryon radiation in sufficient doses can be lethal to Founders and caused the death of a changeling infant in 2373.

Reference: Schisms, Suspicions, Force of Nature, Blood Oath, Visionary, The Begotten, The Die Is Cast, Caretaker, Non Sequitur
Information provided by:
The Continuum, www.startrek.com, @2002 2006 CBS Studios, Paramount Pictures
The Encyclopedia, www.simonsays.com/st, @1997 Pocket Books, Michael & Denise Okuda, Debbie Mirek
Daystrom Institute of Technology, www.ditl.org, @1998 Graham Kennedy
