SHIPS: Bajoran solar-sail vessel

Old Bajoran space vessels that were designed in the 1500s to ride on solar wind. It wasn't discovered until after the craft were in space that the sails would harness tachyon eddies which allowed the ships to travel space at warp speeds, without the use of warp drives. These ships were also called "lightships." These such ships allowed the Bajorans to be the first race between the Cardassians, Federation, or Bajorans to travel faster than light. Relics of these ships have been found on Cardassia Prime, despite efforts by the Cardassian government to conceal the findings.
These two person vessels were designed to be very spartan in order to conserve mass. They only featured one hammock since the crew would have to sleep in shifts to maintain the craft's heading and operation. These craft had no engines to offer propulsion. The original design for the craft was created before artificial gravity was invented so crewpersons used numerous handholds about the ship. Steering was achieved by adjusting the sails of the ship by one of the many hand-cranks inside the cabin. These ships also did not have any communications equipment.
In 237#, Captain Benjamin Sisko came across the plans for one of these craft and built one himself. He and his son Jake set out on this craft when they surprisingly discovered the effect of the tachyon eddies. It propelled them quickly to the Cardassian border where they were met by a wing of Galor-class warships commanded by Gul Dukat. The military leader congratulated Sisko on his voyage and informed him of a "recent" discovery of a similar ship of his homeworld. Bajoran poet Akorem Laan also flew one of these craft and was taken into the Celestial Temple aboard that craft.

Reference: Explorers, Accession
The solar sailer was deisgned by Jim Martin, under the supervision of production designer Herman Zimmerman. The ship-in-flight scenes were computer generated images created by John Knoll, under the direction of visual effects supervisor Glen Neufeld.
Information provided by:
The Continuum, www.startrek.com, @2002 Paramount Pictures
The Encyclopedia, www.simonsays.com/st, @1997 Pocket Books, Michael & Denise Okuda, Debbie Mirek
Star Trek in Sound & Vision, www.stinsv.com, @2003 Dave & Richard

