CLASS: Blocase
TYPE: light cruiser

Much like the Centulian class, they were originally developed as a transport and converted into a cruiser by the Satarran Rebellion. A starship that could patrol and transport cargo, personnel, and supplies across Satarran territory. About 100 meters long and 15 meters wide, these were the largest vessel created by the Satarrans before the Rebellion. Once the rebellion began, these ships were produced in mass quantity to act as convoy leaders and command ships until larger vessels were developed.
This vessel featured a double hull as all vessel created after this point and up until tractor beams are invented and in wide use did.
An I-shaped vessel, it had two major intersections upon the standard main fuselage. At the head of the vessel was the first intersection where the bridge and command sections were. Like its predecessor, this ships was equipped with cargo bays in the front. It also featured mooring points on each side of the hull. When the rebellion took over, these cargo holds were converted into torpedo launchers, magazines, bombing holds, mine holds, and other defensive uses. Laser emitters were installed on the front of the craft, while the side docking latches were converted into the launchers and bomb/mine deployment hatches. Two retractable landing gear were also installed in the foremost section of the craft.
Through the main part of the fuselage were the crew quarters. Five decks with staterooms on two sides of a single hallway. After the rebellion took over they mounted laser cannon turrets to the ventral and dorsal sections of this part of the fuselage. Aft of this part were many of the recreation facilities and crew/ passenger facilities in between the warp nacelles. On this ship the supports for he warp nacelles attached on the top and bottom of the engines, leaving space in between them to act as wings for use in atmospheric entry. After the rebellion took over, they hardly ever made planetary entry, usually in emergency cases when the ship was preparing for a crash landing. Aft of the cargo section was the passenger section. Five decks of staterooms split by a middle hallway. Running above and below all of the decks in the main fuselage were the cargo holds.
At the second intersection were the mooring points for passengers and crew. At this point most people would be reacquainted with their cargo before exiting, or would part with their cargo while boarding. While this took place on the middle three decks, the top two were used by engineering personnel and the bottom two by the starship’s batteries and fuel tanks. Aft of the engineering section were the fusion reactors. Aft of that were seven Ion radiant thrusters in a round collection.

Reference: Q Neighbor
These ships were modeled after the Blockade Runner seen in Star Wars: A New Hope that transported Princess Leia during the opening sequence.
Information provided by:
Starfleet Academy, www.geocities.com/starfleet_academy_2373, @2000 Kenn Ferguson

