SHIPS: I.S.S. Enterprise-D
REGISTRY: ICC-1701-D

A heavy cruiser starship serving in the mirror universe. Dark gray, a gunmetal color, cool and unfriendly.  The primary hull, the nacelles and the secondary hull are the same as the Enterprise NCC1701D.  But the secondary hull seemed larger, the nacelles were further forward and lower.  The primary hull curve was deeper.  Interior is darker than the Enterprise, paneling and furniture are in the same gunmetal gray as the hull.  The engineering station was in about the same position as on the NCC 1701-D, but mission ops and the science stations were much smaller and combined with engineering.  Every other station on the upper tier from starboard lifts to the main viewer was part of weapons control, with crewmen standing at the stations. The three center seats had plush, easy chair looks with the Captain's chair looking like a throne.  There was no family quarters, entertainment areas, gyms, libraries nor arboretum.  There were, however, Primary, Secondary and Tertiary disassociater storage, mass weapons, two transporters, Razor field generation, terraforming equipment and assorted atomics.  This Enterprise could hold high warp speeds three or four times longer then the NCC 1701-D.  It could feed much larger reserves to phasers and photon torpedoes were six times what the USS 1701-D had.  The engine room was four times larger than that of the NCC 1701-D. With the Inclusion Apparatus installed, the ICC 1701D combined the device with her sensors so the NCC 1701-D could be detected.  The target was then drawn into the Mirror Universe and a spy was sent to confirm information about weapons.  Surveillance of NCC 1701-D space using a variation of the Inclusion Device keyed to sub-space communications had been going on a long time.  The mission was to capture the NCC 1701-D command crew and torture them until they gave up their secrets.  Then those officers would be killed and replaced by their Mirror Universe counterparts.  The counterparts would sabotage the NCC 1701-D and supervise the disposition of her crew, restaffing her with the Mirror Universe crew.  The skeleton crew would take the NCC 1701-D and the ICC 1701-D to the Federation  homespace with the Mirror Universe Captain in charge. The Mirror Universe crew would spend a month or two receiving communications and data up-loads from Starfleet.  Then invasion.  A massive break through on many fronts, hundreds of vessels bursting out to take the Federation on four sides, the Klingons and Romulans on three sides each.  The Romulans and Klingons were to be destroyed, special attention being paid to their homeworlds.  

Reference:    Dark Mirror
Information provided by:
Star Trek Novel Encyclopedia Group, www.stneg.org, @2006 Deb J S


