FLEET: Fetlik vessels

The Fetlik developed the original flying saucer long before Terrans even studied the skies. They made several trips to Earth during mankind's evolution and have been a great subconscious influence in the development of Terran and Federation vessel designs.
All Fetlik ships are large round saucers that fly through space and planetary atmosphere. Before joining the Federation and the combined work from other races, Fetlik people did not have artificial gravity for their vessels and had to rely on a different approach for crew and passenger comfort. To generate the magnetic field necessary to simulate a planetary gravity field the saucer spin on its axis, similar to the spin of a planet. A gravity field was generated along the outside edges of the ship. As numerous decks were installed between the outer edges, gravity existed on them too, to some extent. Greater gravity could be found in the extremes of the vessel.
The saucers move against the edge of the craft, unlike Federation ships. So when a Fetlik ship moves in, the flat disk is facing the forward direction and the vessel looks much larger than it really is. The flat facing design was necessary so that the ship's bridge could remain facing the forward direction during any point in the ship's rotation.
As warp technology was developed the nacelles were attached to the front of the starship and in the center of the craft. A stable warp bubble was created to extend just beyond the edges of the saucer and then the ship's thrusters would propel the craft into the warped space. The design is very efficient in energy use and machine operation, but it does not allow for any ships to carry or tow extra vehicles outside of its hull into warp without them using their own warp equipment.
The Fetlik were the first species to use the phaser stripe that is common on newer Starfleet vessels. The round vessels needed a weapon that could be aimed in a 360^ arc for defensive purposes. By adding power to one energy collector that runs around the saucer and by using a launching formula to direct the emission of that energy, the Fetlik were able to repel aggressors from any angle.

Classifications of ships built by the Fetlik include: 

Hagorian-class heavy cruisers
Hovan-class atmospheric stations
Cemek-class freighters
Geolu-class transports
Spiel-class carrier
Stardome-class starbases
Umbriel-class mining stations

Reference: Terrafirma
Information provided by:
Starfleet Academy, www.geocities.com/starfleet_academy_2373, @2000 Kenn Ferguson
Fetlik vessels
The Fetlik were popular visitors to many inhabited planets before they developed warp travel or rocket technology. Numerous reports were regularly made about "flying saucers." At the time they were usually dismissed by authorities or covered up by conspiracy to avoid public panic. Turns out those saucers were real.
Fetlik craft employ the round saucer shape since they were one of the first races to explore space but did not have the technology to use gravity plating. Fetlik craft were round so that they could spin and use centrifugal force to simulate gravity in their ships. After joining the United Federation of Planets they received gravity technology and immediately incorporated it into their ships, but the round designed stayed.
This round design influenced the design of modern ships as well. Many cultures have witnessed the saucers and have made the visual a cultural icon. To such a point that when races designed their own craft the round saucers were duplicated. This is even evident in the design of most Starfleet craft with the primary hull being shaped like a saucer.
The Fetlik were azlso very influencial in Starfleet design in other ways; phasers. While phased energy was not indigineous to Fetlik, the use of energy strips were. In order to effectively aim a weapon from a spinning target engineers warpped their warships with a continuous emitter that covered the entire circumference. Then by charging the entire strip they would have high emounts of energy available when the blast was sent. And by placing emitter nodes all along the strip they would have the ability to discharge the builtup energy from any one of numerous points to go in the desired direction. When the Federation adopted the use of these weapons they were integrated as Type 9 phasers, used on ships of the line beginning with the Ambassador class.
All Fetlik ships employ a single warp nacelle that is round in shape and set atop the main dish. This round warp field emitter is capable of generating a field that wraps around the main dish. The craft then is propelled into the warped space from impulse engines underneath. Fetlik craft fly face on, with the saucer verticle to the forward direction. Inside of the warp nacelle is the bridge and other command stations. Inside of the bridge is the main deflector dish, emanating a field large enough to protect the entire saucer.

