CLASS: Galaxy
TYPE: heavy cruiser

One of the most powerful and largest starships in the Federation Starfleet during the late 24th century. The U.S.S. Enterprise-D was the flagship of the Federation while it was in service. These ships were so powerful and popular enough that during the Dominion War an entire wing comprised of Galaxy-class starships was sent as an advance on a blockade of Dominion vessels (Jem'Hadar and Cardassian warships).
The first Galaxy-class starship, a prototype for the most sophisticated of Federation ships in the late 24th century, the U.S.S. Galaxy was damaged when it participated in an invasion of Cardassian space in 2374. 
The Galaxy II is a conjectural type of modified starship with heavy weapons and an extra nacelle. None of these ships have been built yet, but the plans have been laid down in case the Federation deems it appropriate to require such vessels. In the anti-time future created by Q and subjected upon Jean-Luc Picard, he recognized one of these craft as being the personal flagship of Admiral William Riker. That ship was also fitted with a cloaking device that it used to surprise the Klingon aggressors menacing the U.S.S. Pasteur.

SHIPS OF THE LINE:
U.S.S. Galaxy, NX-
U.S.S. Challenger, NCC-
U.S.S. Enterprise-D, NCC-1701-D
U.S.S. 
U.S.S. Odyssey, NCC-71832
U.S.S. Trial, NCC-
U.S.S. Venture, NCC-
U.S.S. Yamato, NCC-71807

DISPLACEMENT
Light: 4,125,000 MT
Standard: 4,500,000 MT
Full: 4,850,000 MT
Cargo Capacity: 875,000 MT

DIMENSIONS
Length: 642.51 m
Beam: 463.73 m
Draught: 195.26 m
Number of Decks: 42

PROPULSION
Warp Drive: M/ARA Mark I feeding 2 GN-1 Mod 1 Warp Drive Nacelles
Warp Engine Fuel: Cold Deuterium (matter) / Anti-Hydrogen (antimatter)
Impulse Drive: 3 LMP Fusion Reaction Impulse Units
Impulse Engine Fuel: Slush Deuterium
Fuel Replenishment: Bussard Scoop
Reaction Control System: Fusion Thrust Units

VELOCITY
Normal Cruising Speed: Warp 6
Max Cruising Speed: Warp 9.2

ACCELERATION
Rest-Onset Critical Momentum: 5.61 sec
Onset Critical Momentum-Warp Engage: .13 sec
Warp 1-Warp 3: .17 sec
Warp 3-Warp 6: .15 sec
Warp 6-Warp 9: .23 Sec

DURATION
Expected Lifetime: Estimated 100 Years
Number of Maintenance/Upgrade Layovers: 200
Time Between Resupply: 5 Years
Time Between Refit: 20 Years

COMPLEMENT
Officer Crew: 185
Enlisted Crew: 725
Civilians/Families: 250+
Evacuation Capacity: 15,000

EMBARKED CRAFT
Total: 40

NAVIGATION
System: "Cosmosis" Warp Celestial Guidance

COMPUTERS
Type: FTL Mk I
Crew Interface Software: LCARS 2.3
Data Transfer Rate: 4600 Kilo quads/Second
Number of Dedicated Modules: 2048
Storage Capacity/Module: 630,000 Kilo quads

SENSORS
High Resolution Long Range Max Effective Range: 5 ly
Medium to Low Resolution Effective Range: 17 ly

COMMUNICATIONS
Intraship Transmissions: Voice & Data
Personnel Communicator Range: 500 km
Ship to Ground Range: 38,000 - 60,000 km
Communications Speed: 18.5 Kilo quads/Second
Subspace Speed: 9.9997 Warp

PHASERS
Ship: 11 Type X Phasers: 5.1 MW
Personal: Type I, II & III Phasers: 0.01MW

PHOTON TORPEDOES
Tubes: 3 Mk 10 Mod 5 Direct
Max Torpedo Simultaneous Spread: 10

DEFENSE
Shields: "Hercules" Primary Force Field and Deflector Control System
Fire Control: "Monitor V" Fire Control System

TRANSPORTERS
Personnel Transporters: 6
Emergency Transporters: 6
Cargo Transporters: 8

General Overview

Any discussion of the Galaxy-class starship that attempted to detail all of the possible attributes and applications of the vessel would fill many volumes of this size. As with living organisms, a mobile environment as large as the U.S.S. Galaxy or any of her sister ships is undergoing constant evolution. Were one to make a close examination of the starship at ten-year intervals one would see a slightly different vessel each time.
At the early stages the starship is still in the early operational phase of its lifetime, a few years out of Utopia Planitia Fleet Yards, its components and crew settling in, slowly becoming a totally integrated working unit.
The Galaxy-class is categorized as an Explorer, the largest starship in a classification that includes cruiser, cargo carrier, tanker, surveyor, and scout. Explorer is often compared to a medium or heavy cruiser, with this version fitting the larger category. While most starships may be adapted for a variety of mission types, the vessel type designations describe their primary purpose. Smaller vehicles with impulse or limited warp capability, such as shuttles, are referred to as craft, to distinguish them from the larger starships.
Seen from a comfortable distance of two or three kilometers, the starship takes on the graceful lines of a nonrepresentational organic sculpture. Nature has determined the flow of the design, adhering closely to mathematical formulae at work in the universe surrounding the builders. Even in the desire to expand beyond the apparent limits of the natural world, familiar forces create familiar shapes. As the rapid aquatic and avian creatures of dozens of habitable worlds independently developed the unmistakable attributes of streaming, so too did their interstellar cousin.
The combination of forces produced within the warp engine core and the flow of space and subspace around the vessel created the particular engineering solution to the problem of faster-than-light travel. The initial Starfleet requirement that a single spacecraft be able to perform as three distinct vehicles presented some rather complex- though some engineers not normally afraid of numbers preferred the word "daunting"- computational challenges.
The docked configuration presented the most efficient use of warp flight forces, but the Battle Section was also required to perform to specifications at warp velocities on its own, and the Saucer Module would have to have the capability of high sub-light speed and possibly survive a separation at high warp. Scientists and engineers throughout the Federation, with all the deportment of composers and conductors, arranged sweeping curves, described vast volumes, and summoned up fantastic energies to bring their creation into existence.
PHYSICAL ARRANGEMENT
The hulls, remarkably birdlike in their strong, hollow construction, are reinforced against flight stresses by active energy fields that tighten and flex where required to compensate for natural and artificial internal and external forces. Structures integrated into the hulls allow for a variety of necessary functions.
The Bridge consolidates command positions for the rest of the starship, windows give crewmembers needed vistas while in space, phaser arrays and photon torpedo launchers provide defense against hostile forces, and subspace radio arrays communicate with other worlds and other ships.
Lifeboats allow for escape in dire emergencies, transporter emitters afford reliable movement of crew and gear nearly instantaneously, navigational sensors and deflectors give the starship distant vision and a method for clearing obstacles, and powerful warp engines propel the ship at speeds only dreamt of when most space-faring races begin their climb to the stars.
The forty-two decks are internally divided around major load-bearing structures. A great many systems, especially the pressurized habitation sections, are suspended within the open spaces, essentially "floating" on flexible ligaments to minimize mechanical, thermal, and conductive radiation shocks. As the Enterprise left the Utopia Planitia Fleet Yards, approximately 35% of the internal volume was not yet filled with room modules and remained as empty space-frame for future expansion and mission-specific applications.
The interior spaces validate the concept of the interstellar organism, with the level of complexity rising dramatically inside the hull. The starship possesses structures akin to a central nervous system and circulatory apparatus, food storage areas, a heart, loco motor mechanisms, waste removal paths, and numerous other systems. Many of these are self-maintaining, with crew intervention required only occasionally to monitor their operation. Other hardware requires high levels of crew service and control.
In a sense, the crew act as caretaker cells watching over the health of the total vessel to achieve a homeostatic balance. During crisis situations, the total system responds as would an organism, working to produce higher levels of energy and to deal with adverse conditions at a faster pace.
The living areas of the starship have been designed for maximum comfort and safety while the crew is conducting a mission. Long-term studies of humanoid cultures have confirmed that as each race embarked upon permanent occupation of space, large personal living spaces had to be established, especially on early sub-light expeditions. The Enterprise allows for some 110 square meters of living space per person, in addition to community space and the areas allocated to purely working functions. While some engineers on the Galaxy-class Project questioned the relatively large size of the vessel, opting for a smaller, more efficient design, it was conceded that the large size provided a greater number of mission options, given the changing social, political, and economic conditions in the Milky Way.
CONSTRUCTION CHRONOLOGY
The construction of any new starship is said to begin, as in the days of sailing, with the laying of the keel in the shipbuilding yard. While the wooden hull of old has been replaced by metal alloys and ultra-strong synthetic compounds, the significance of laying the keel has survived undiminished. The inception and completion of a conveyance, whether tailored for crossing distances on the scale of an ocean or the galaxy, has for millennia filled its creators with a sense of accomplishment and purpose.
The history of the Galaxy-class Project, and of the U.S.S. Enterprise-D in particular, is a story of technological innovation and teamwork spanning more than twenty years. Research and fabrication centers throughout the Federation, under the direct authority of Starfleet Command's Advanced Starship Design Bureau (ASDB), combined their efforts to plan and execute the newest and most complex vessel to join Starfleet's inventory.
When the official start for the project was announced in July 2343, much original theoretical work had already been accomplished, particularly in the propulsion field. While the attempt to surpass the primary warp field efficiency barrier with the Transwarp Development Project in the early 2280s proved unsuccessful, the pioneering achievements in warp power generation and field coil design eventually led to the up rated Excelsior and Ambassador-class starships. Both vessels served Starfleet in exemplary fashion. They continue to do so, even beyond their original design lifetimes. The Galaxy-class is expected to remain true to its predecessors.
The construction of the U.S.S. Enterprise-D followed a path similar to that taken by the pathfinder vehicle, the prototype U.S.S. Galaxy, and the first production starship, the U.S.S. Yamato. As with any large space vessel project, improved materials and construction techniques were incorporated into the U.S.S. Enterprise-D assembly process, allowing the minimum flyable starships to be delivered to Starfleet in two years less time than the previous class. On June 3, 2350, the first two space-frame components, the Deck 10 computer core elliptical compression member and the starboard main longitudinal compression bulkhead, were gamma-welded during a brief ceremony at the Utopia Planitia assembly site 16,625 kilometers above the surface of Mars, in synchronous orbit. 
The initial procurement order issued by Starfleet Command was for six Galaxy-class ships. A projected total of twelve vessels is held as an option to be activated by Starfleet and the Federation, should conditions warrant. Once the initial space-frame design was finalized, it was decided to proceed with the completion of six vessels and to take the other six to the end of the framework stage only. These six space-frames have been broken down into manageable segments and dispersed by cargo carriers to remote sites within the Federation as a security measure.
The following events describe the construction of the U.S.S. Enterprise. There exists little difference in the general construction logs of the Enterprise and those of its dock mates, the pathfinder vessel U.S.S. Galaxy, and the second starship off the line, the U.S.S. Yamato. Major installation and testing milestones for the first two ships precede those of the Enterprise-D by six months to one year. Certain design and fabrication lessons learned were applied to the Enterprise-D in rapid order, once the soundness of the yard changes was verified. Certain problems, such as the warp engine development, were common to all ships, and do not necessarily indicate a unique situation. Where the Enterprise-D experienced a ship-specific success or failure, it is so noted.
2343
Galaxy-class Project finally approved. Design centers begin drawing upon previous starships once general specifications are transmitted. Vehicle frame, engine systems, computer cores, and hull receive high priority.
2344
ASDB begins early definition work on Galaxy-class mission simulators programmed with basic vessel characteristics. Detail design work continues.
2345
Mass and volume studies proceed for all internal systems, based on first cut of frame designs. Field narrows from forty to fifteen. Computer core and software architecture passes Design Review 0.
2346
Testing of hull materials proceeds; final design must include conduits for structural integrity field (SIF), inertial damping field (IDF), and deflector shield grid. Warp and impulse systems pass Design Review 0; materials difficulties foreseen in warp coils. Impulse system design frozen. Computer design passes Reviews 1 and 2. Sensor systems evolving. Habitation and workspace module design frozen; fabrication begins. Redesign of transporter biofilter is requested. Phaser emitter undergoes redesign; photon torpedo upgrade proceeds with standard launcher and casings. Main deflector design frozen.
2347
Warp engine systems design tentatively frozen; anticipating nacelle design frozen later in the year. Impulse design undergoes tweaking. Computer cores pass Reviews 3 and 4. Transporter biofilter design frozen; system fabrication begins. Phaser emitter redesign passes Review 0. Main deflector power supply redesigned to accommodate science instruments.
2348
Vehicle frame and docking latch system pass Review 0. Final selection of frame alloys; materials ordered. Warp engine and nacelle designs frozen; nacelle passes Reviews 0 and 1. Warp engine components begin test fabrication. Impulse engine components, main computers, and transporter begin fabrication. Communications systems and tractor beam design frozen; fabrication deferred for power simulations. Phaser emitter third redesign passes Review 0; Reviews 1 and 2 skipped as fabrication begins. Main deflector power redesigned; fabrication begins.
2349
Frame and docking systems pass Review 1; structural latches begin fabrication. Hull skin design frozen; some areas remain under development. Warp engine materials failures slow fabrication. Nacelles pass Review 2; fabrication begins late in the year. Tractor beam system under construction. Photon torpedo launcher design frozen. Sensor pallets under construction. All auxiliary spacecraft under development.
2350
First frame members gamma-welded in Utopia Planitia ceremony. Warp nacelle shells under construction; coils remain in test phase. Impulse components test-fit within frame at midyear. Computer core framing underway. Habitat modules test-fit. Phasers and photon torpedo assemblies under construction.
2351
Frame construction and major hardware installations continue simultaneously. Hull layers begin attachment. Warp engine core 65% complete; nacelles pass Review 3 with assumptions of successful
Fixes to coil material problems. Major impulse engine installation complete. Computer cores 50% complete off-site. First layers of habitat modules installed. Transporter installation deferred in labor rescheduling. Tractor beam emitters modified to accommodate hull skin changes. Phaser bank installation proceeds. All other power and consumables conduits continue installation.
2352
Warp engine core completed; materials difficulties eliminated. Warp field coil manufacture delayed by furnace complications; other system assemblies completed. Preparations made for impulse run-up tests. Main computer cores 80% complete; non-flight mock-ups complete fit checks. Habitat and connecting passages 55% installed. Transporter systems minus hull emitters begin installation. Phaser bank installation complete; electro plasma power supply to phasers deferred until warp engine power levels verified. Photon torpedo magnetic launcher power supplies reworked. Temporary gravity generators installed; network active only where necessary.
2353
Framing and hull skin construction continues. Docking system latches and pass-through fit checks continue. Deuterium reactant tanks and antimatter pod assemblies arrive from off-site for integration. Warp coil fixes effected; production of matched coil sets continues. Impulse engine system run-up test performed; fusion chambers powered singly and in combinations. Reaction control system (RCS) thruster assemblies installed. Two computer cores completed; one each installed in Saucer Module and Battle Section. Third core completion slowed by isolinear chip availability problems. Phaser power flow regulators and conduits installed; predicted warp core power tap verified as adequate. Main deflector piggyback instrument power supply work complete.
2354
Some hull skin sections show unacceptable welds; 2% reworked to fix problem. Imbedded defensive shield grid not affected. Warp engine core begins low-power tests; reaches Warp 2 equivalent energy. Nacelles still awaiting coil delivery. Impulse test continue; RCS thruster software problem fixed. Third computer core delayed for additional two years; affects all downstream starships. Habitat layers 70% complete. Shuttlecraft, work pods, and lifeboats arrive for integration tests. Photon torpedo launcher thermal expansion anomaly fixed.
2355
Final outer framing members completed; minor design change in forward dorsal requires added longitudinal members. Warp engine core tests continue. Impulse engine system complete. Permanent gravity generator network complete. Habitat modules and storage volumes complete. Transporter and subspace comm system antenna modified; made compatible with deflector shield grid emissions. Structural integrity field (SIF) runs at low power; works out starship's framing "kinks". Main deflector field focus test successful after start-up failure repaired. Starboard pylon phaser bank swapped with one from U.S.S. Yamato; better operational fir for each. Photon torpedo loader thermal problem returns; new fix is final. Sensor pallets 50% installed; minimum for flight.
2356
Starship skin 95% complete. Warp engine power up tests to Warp 8 equivalent. Warp coils delivered and installed. Impulse fusion generators perform full power non-propulsive tests. Third computer core delivered and installed; additional programming and test continue. First habitat module swap-out by transporter successful. Transporter tests complete. Final SIF and inertial damping field hookups complete. Comm system 90% complete. Impulse power to phasers certified. 30% of lifeboats delivered and docked. U.S.S. Galaxy is launched from orbital dock on maneuvering thrusters.
2357
Hull integrity complete; all SIF and IDF systems operational. Warp nacelles buttoned up and certified for flight. Final impulse system adjustments underway. Computer core subspace field shielding problem arises on Enterprise-D only; threatened one-third of power systems on starship, traced to conflicting power-up procedures, then fixed. Comm system complete after minor rerouting to avoid computer problem. Photon torpedo system remote firing successful. Defensive shields final hookup complete. Sensor pallets certified. U.S.S. Galaxy is commissioned; declared deep-space worthy and warp-capable; moves to outer solar system.
2358 
Tests continue on total warp impulse propulsion systems. All other internal spacecraft systems powered up; cross-system tests continue. New flight software installed in all three computer cores. Ejectable bridge module docked. Minimum flight test program crew completes preliminary training aboard ship. Captain's yacht test article docked, non-flight version. U.S.S. Enterprise-D is launched; leaves don on maneuvering thrusters.
2359
Flight test crews continues developmental shakedown trials in Mars space. U.S.S. Enterprise-D computers receive continuous performance updates from U.S.S. Galaxy orbiting Pluto. Tasks include extensive sensor operations, simulated emergency conditions, simulated combat exercises, and power system stress analysis. Warp field coil receive first power, non-propulsive, Warp 1 equivalent. Power conditioning of warp coils continues up through Warp 8 equivalent. Performance analysis continues on all vehicle components. Main computers developing "systems awareness," learning and recording how ship behaves as a total entity. U.S.S. Enterprise-D declared deep-space worthy and warp-capable. Yellow warp stress visibility hull coatings applied.
2360-2363
U.S.S. Enterprise-D achieves warp flight in outer solar system. Initial vibration difficulties to higher warp factors smoothed out by computer adjustments to warp geometry control software. Skin reinforcements and frame stiffening performance during dock layovers. Final hull coatings and markings applied. Live-fire phaser and photon torpedo exercises test crew and systems. Low-level defensive shield power deficiencies appear; enhanced shield generators designs put into work. All lifeboats and auxiliary spacecraft docked, including flight-qualified captain's yacht. Operational bridge module docked.
4 October 2363
The U.S.S. Enterprise-D is officially commissioned in a ceremony at the Utopia Planitia Fleet Yards. The U.S.S. Galaxy and U.S.S. Yamato send congratulatory messages via subspace radio.
MAIN SKELETAL STRUCTURE
The primary space-frame of the Galaxy-class starship is fabricated from an interlocking series of tritanium/ duranium macro-filament truss frames. These members average 1.27 m2  in cross section, and are located on average of every 25 meters across the ship's exterior.
Larger numbers of these trusses are located integral to the main and saucer impulse engine sections, the warp nacelle pylons, both saucer and battle sides of the docking latch interfaces, and along the centerlines of both hull structures. Smaller trusses, averaging 0.53 m2 in cross section, are located every five meters on average, and also provide internal supports within the deck and core structure of the spacecraft interior.
This basic mechanical framework provides physical integrity to the vehicle while at rest. A parallel series of aluminum crystal foam stringers are phase-transition bonded to the primary trusses, providing low-frequency vibration attenuation across the main truss structure, as well as support for certain utility conduits.
Also attached to these stringers are various conformal devices built into the hull structure, including elements of the deflector shield grid, as well as subspace radio antennas, which are incorporated in the exterior skin of the spacecraft.
SECONDARY FRAMEWORK
Mounted to the primary space-frame is a secondary framework of micro-extruded terminium trusses to which the inner hull structure is directly attached. The secondary framework is mounted by means of 3.2 cm diameter x 5.1 cm long semi-rigid polyduranide support rods, permitting a limited amount of mechanical isolation from the primary space-frame for purposes of strain relief, plus sound and vibration isolation. Secondary space-frame segments are also separated from each other (although mechanically attached) to permit replacement of inner hull segments and associated utilities infrastructure during major starbase layover.
Structural integrity during powered flight is provided by a series of force fields that reinforce the physical framework. This structural integrity field energy (SIF) is distributed through a network of molybdenum-jacketed wave guides, which in turn distribute SIF energy into ceramic-polymer conductive elements throughout the space-frame. Without the structural integrity field, the vehicle would be unable to withstand accelerations greater than 7.4 m/sec2 without significant deformation, or greater than 19.5 m/sec2 without unrecoverable structural damage (in other words, the spacecraft would sag under its own weight in Earth's gravity without the reinforcement of the SIF).
The exterior hull substrate is joined to the primary load bearing trusses by means of 4.8 cm diameter electronic bonded duranium pins at 1.25 meter intervals. These pins are slip-fitted into an insulating AGP ceramic fabric jacket that provides thermal insulation between the space-frame and the exterior hull. The pins, jacketing, and hull segments are gamma-welded together.
COORDINATE SYSTEM
EXTERNAL COORDINATE SYSTEM
An integrated system governing control of all manufacturing, repair, and operational structural reference points exists for all starships. The system utilizes a standard three-dimensional vertex and vector measuring scheme, with centimeters as its operative value. The three axes are labeled X, Y, and Z. The X axis runs port-starboard, with +X to starboard. The Y axis runs dorsal-ventral, with +Y to dorsal. The Z axis runs fore-to-aft, with +Z to aft. Note that this is opposite in sign to translational maneuvers, which consider +Z to be in the direction of flight.
All single points, vectors, and planes can be determined with this scheme, creating a common ground for structural topics. The Galaxy-class is considered to have three vessel configurations: Docked, Saucer Module, and Battle Section. Each configuration maintains a specific measurement origin, designated by the XYZ value of the forward most structure. For example, the center forward edge of the saucer is labeled XYZS 0,0,0. Coincidentally, it is also the origin for the docked vessel and can be labeled XYZD  0,0,0. The origin for the Battle Section, designated XYZB 0,0,0, also corresponds to a point on the docked vessel as XYZD 0, -1676, 25146, meaning that the Battle Section is at 25146 cm aft of the ship's forward edge and 1676 cm below.
Specific components, such as the warp engine nacelles, are given their own origins and coordinate values, and these will also have corresponding values relative to their parent assemblies. For example, the origin of the port warp nacelle is labeled XYZNP 0,0,0. This point, relative to the Battle Section origin, is XYZB  -12954, -1524, 13716.
Planes passing through the different vessel configurations are labeled according to their axis. XY planes of the docked starship run vertically and laterally, XZ planes intersect the ship parallel with the saucer equator, and YZ planes run vertically and fore-to-aft. Planes may be called out as existing XYZ station points, and coordinates may be given within that plane, especially in locating key starship components or processes.
Normally, all coordinate and planar data are manipulated by the main computers in their monitoring and repair tasks and are available to Engineering crew members as an option in considering exact three-dimensional relationships within the ship.
INTERNAL COORDINATE SYSTEM
Structures and objects within the Galaxy-class space frame are located with the following coordinate system. Intraship locator addresses are based on a fifteen digit code which follows the form: "12-1234-000/000/000."
The first group of two digits refers to the deck number. Possible values within the Primary Hull range from 01 (Deck 1, the Main Bridge) to 16 (the captain's yacht docking port on the underside of the saucer). Within the Engineering Hull, the deck numbers range from 08 (the Battle Bridge at the top of the dorsal) to 42 (Deck 42, the bottom of the Engineering Hull).
The second group of four digits specifies the sector and compartment number. For locations within the Primary Hull, the first two digits of this group refer to one of 36 ten-degree sectors. For locations within the Engineering Hull, the first digit of this group is always a 5, with the second digit designating one of ten sectors. A first digit of 6 indicates a location within the port nacelle or pylon, and a first digit of 7 indicates a location within the starboard warp nacelle or pylon.
The third and fourth digits in this second group indicate the compartment or station number within the sector.
Note that the first and second group of the locator address (totaling six digits) are generally used as room designator numbers within the habitable volume of the spacecraft. By keeping in mind this general scheme of room and compartment numbering, it is possible for crew members to locate virtually any room on board the ship by use of the internal coordinate system.
The final group of three-digit numbers refers to the XYZ coordinate address within a compartment. In cases where greater precision is required, decimal values are appended to each of the XYZ coordinates.
HULL LAYERS
The exterior shell of the spacecraft consists of multiple layers which afford structural and atmospheric integrity for the space frame, integral waveguides and field conductive members for the structural integrity field (SIF), and pathways for other utilities (including deflector grids) as well as resistance to radiation and thermal energy.
The exterior shell substrate is composed of interlaced micro foam filaments. These filaments are gamma-welded into a series of contiguous composite segments that are 4.7 cm thick and are typically two meters in width. The substrate segments are electron bonded to three reinforcing layers of 1.2 cm biaxially stressed tritanium fabric, which provide additional torsion strength.
In area immediately adjacent to major structural members, four layers of 2.3 cm fabric are used. The substrate later is attached to the major structural members by electron-bonded duranium fasteners at 2.5 cm intervals. The substrate segments are not intended to be replaceable, except by phase-transition bonding using a transporter assembly jig during major starbase layovers.
Thermal insulation and secondary SIF conductivity are provided by two 3.76 cm layers of low-density expanded ceramic-polymer composites. These layers are separated by an 8.7 cm multiaxis tritanium truss framework, which provides additional thermal insulation and a pass-through for fixed utility conduits.
Radiation attenuation is provided by a 4.2 cm layers of monocrystal beryllium silicate infused with semi ferrous polycarbonate whiskers. This layer is networked with a series of 2.3 x 0.85 cm molybdenum-jacketed conduits. These conduits, which occur at 130 cm intervals, serve as triphase waveguides for the secondary structural integrity field. Conductive tritanium rods penetrate the waveguides at 10 cm intervals and transfer SIF energy into the ceramic-polymer conductive layer.
The outermost hull layer is composed of a 1.6 cm sheet of AGP ablative ceramic fabric chemically bonded onto a substrate of 0.15 tritanium foil. This material is formed into segments of approximately 3.7 m2 and is attached to the radiation attenuation layer by a series of duranium fasteners, which allows individual segments to be replaced as necessary. (Micrometeoroid erosion is kept to a minimum by the deflector shield system, but is sufficient to warrant replacement of 30% of leading-edge segments on the average of every 7.2 Standard years.) Individual outer hull segments are machined to a tolerance of +/- 0.5 mm to allow for minimum drag through the interstellar medium. Joints between segments are manufactured to a tolerance of +/- 0.25mm.
Also incorporated into the outermost hull layer is a series of superconducting molybdenum-jacketed waveguide conduits which serves to distribute and disperse the energy of the tactical deflector system. Selected segments of this network also serve as radiators for starship thermal management.
STRUCTURAL INTEGRITY FIELD SYSTEM
The mechanical integrity of the physical space frame is augmented by the structural integrity field (SIF) system. This system provides a network of force field segments that compensate for propulsive and other structural load factors that otherwise exceed the design limits of the space frame. The SIF applies force field energy directly to field conductive elements within the space frame and increases the load bearing capacity of the structure.
Field generation for the SIF is provided by three field generators located on Deck 11 in the Primary Hull and by two generators located on Deck 32 in the Secondary Hull. Each generator consists of a cluster of twenty 12 MW graviton polarity sources feeding a pair of 250 millicochrane subspace field distortion amplifiers. Heat dissipation on each unit is provide by a pair of 300,000 mega joules per hour (MJ/hr) continuous-duty liquid helium coolant loops. Two backup generators are located in each hull, providing up to twelve hours of service at 55% of maximum rated power. Normal duty cycle on generators in thirty-six hours online, with nominal twenty-four hour degauss and scheduled maintenance time. Graviton polarity sources are rated for 1,500 operating hours between routine servicing of superconductive elements.
The output of each SIF generator is directed by means of a network of molybdenum-jacketed triphase waveguides which distributes the field energy throughout the space frame. SIF conductivity elements are incorporated into all major structural members. When energized by the SIF, the load-bearing capacity of these conductive structural elements is increased by up to 125,000%. Secondary feeds also provide for reinforcement of the vehicle's external shell.
Cruise Mode operating rules require at least one field generator to be active at all times in each hull, although the Flight Control Officer may call for activation of a second generator when extreme maneuvers are anticipated. During alert modes, all operational units are brought to hot standby for immediate activation. Reduced Power Mode rules permit a single field generator to feed the entire space frame using the field conduit umbilical connect between the primary and engineering sections.
INERTIAL DAMPING SYSTEM
Operating in parallel with the structural integrity field (SIF) system is the inertial damping field system (IDF). This system generates a controlled series of variable-symmetry force fields that serve to absorb the inertial forces of spaceflight which would otherwise cause fatal injury to the crew. The IDF is generated separately from the SIF, but is fed by a parallel series of waveguides that are then conducted through synthetic gravity plates.
The IDF operates by maintaining a low-level force field throughout the habitable volume of the spacecraft. This field averages 75 millicochranes with filed differential limited to 5.26 nanocochranes/meter, per SFRA-standard 352.12 for crew exposure to subspace fields.
As acceleration effects are anticipated, this field is distorted along a vector diametrically opposed to the velocity change. The IDF thereby absorbs the inertial potential, which would otherwise have acted upon the crew.
There is a characteristic lag time for shifting of IDF direction and intensity. This lag varies with the net acceleration involved, but averages 295 milliseconds from normal impulse maneuvers. Because IDF control is generally derived from Flight Controller data, normal course corrections can be anticipated so there is rarely any noticeable acceleration to the crew. Exceptions to this sometimes occur when power for IDF operations is restricted or when sudden maneuvers or other externally caused accelerations occur more rapidly than the system can respond.
Flux generations for the IDF is provided by four field generators located on Deck 11 in the Primary Hull and by two generators located on Deck 33 in the Engineering Hull. Each generator consists of a cluster of twelve 500 kW graviton polarity sources feeding a pair of 150 millicochrane subspace field distortion amplifiers. Heat dissipation on each unit is provided by a pair of 100,000 MJ/hr continuous-duty liquid helium coolant loops. Three backup generators are located in each hull, providing up to twelve hours of service at 65% of maximum rated power. Normal duty cycle on generators in forty-eight hours online, with nominal twelve hours degauss and scheduled maintenance time. Graviton polarity sources are rated for 2,500 operating hours between routine servicing of superconductive elements.
Cruise Mode operating rules require at least two field generators to be active at all times in each hull, although the Flight Control Officer may call for activation of additional units when extreme maneuvers are anticipated. During Alert modes, all operational units are brought to hot standby for immediate activation. Reduced Power Mode rules permit a single field generator to feed the entire space frame, using the field conduit umbilical connect between the primary and engineering sections.
EMERGENCY PROCEDURES IN SIF/IDF FAILURE
Failure of the structural integrity field (SIF) or the inertial damping field (IDF) can have potentially catastrophic consequences to the starship and to its crew. For this reason, multiple redundancy has been built into these systems, and emergency protocols have been devised to anticipate the possibility of failure of one ore more of these units.
The Galaxy-class is dependent upon it structural integrity field to maintain the space frame during the tremendous accelerations encountered during impulse flight as well as the differential subspace field stresses experienced during warp flight. The inertial damping field also provides vital cushioning to the fragile crew during such maneuvers. Without such protection, the spacecraft and crew are unable to survive accelerations in excess of 30 m/sec2 (approximately 3g) without serious structural damage to the space frame and severe- probably fatal- injury to the crew. By way of contrast, accelerations considerably in excess of 1,000g are not uncommon when under full impulse power. Warp flight operations do not produce direct acceleration stresses, but SIF/IDF protection is needed because of the potential for warp field differential stresses and local variations in inertial potential.
Under Cruise Mode operating protocols, two field generators are active at all times, although one unit is sufficient to provide adequate protection for both spacecraft and crew except during extreme maneuvers. In case of failure of one field generator, a backup unit will automatically engage, keeping the number of active units at two. If a third unit is available to be placed in service, Cruise Mode rules allow operations in progress to continue without operation.
In the event of failure of two field generators, or in the case where an additional backup cannot be brought on line, operating rules require a Yellow Alert status to be initiated, and the Commanding Officer is required to make a determination whether to allow primary or secondary mission operations in progress to continue.
In the event of failure of three or four field generators, regardless of the availability of backup units, Yellow Alert status must be initiated and the vehicle must attempt to decelerate to an inertially safe condition, subject to sufficient generator capacity. If the spacecraft is presently at sub light speed, that speed must be reduced to the point where further deceleration can be absorbed by minimal inertial damping and structural integrity capacity. If the spacecraft is traveling at warp, an immediate reduction to sub light must be initiated, subject to maximum allowable subspace field differentials. Such down warping must be a simple field collapse maneuver; differential field maneuvers are not permitted. Operating rules provide for exceptions during combat situations or when the failure of the remaining field generators is believed to be immediately imminent.
The failure of all five field generators requires an immediate Red Alert status. The Commanding Officer is first required to stabilize the situation, take steps to minimize potential risk, and then to begin deceleration maneuvers. Severe operational limits are imposed on vehicle maneuvers. Immediate down warping to sub light must be performed, except during active combat situations. Such down warping must be a simple field collapse maneuver, differential field maneuvers are not permitted.
Once the Commanding Officer or supervising Operations Manager has determined that further system failures are no longer an immediate threat, power conservation procedures are initiated because of the possibility that the ship may be unable to make a significant change in course or speed for a period of several months. Starfleet Command is notified for possible assistance or rescue efforts.
Until the arrival of assistance, the ship should maintain power conservation procedures and perform the maximum decelerations consistent with vehicle and crew safety. Rescue and salvage options include replacement of field generation components, evacuation of crew to permit unprotected deceleration using the ship's own engines or a tractor beam. Under certain conditions, it is possible for a rescue vessel to project an SIF/IDF onto the ship, although this is a difficult and extremely power-intensive procedure; especially for a vessel of this size. A final option is the evacuation of the crew and abandonment of the spacecraft. Although even this option should not preclude the possibility of salvage at a later date.
SAUCER MODULE SEPARATION SYSTEMS
The Galaxy-class vessel consists of two spacecraft systems integrated to form a single functional vessel. Under specific emergency conditions, the two vehicle elements may perform a separation maneuver and continue independent operation. The two elements, the Saucer Module and the Battle Section, are normally joined together by a series of structural docking latches, numerous umbilicals, and turbo lift pass-throughs.
Eighteen docking latches provide the necessary physical connections between the major load-bearing members of both vehicles. The active side of the latches is located on the dorsal surface of the Battle Section around the periphery of the Battle Bridge and upper sensor arrays. The passive apertures for the latches are set into the aft ventral surface of the Saucer Module. Each active match segment consists of two separating grab plates driven by four redundant sets of electro fluidic pistons. The grab plates measure 6.9 x 7.2 meters and are constructed of diffusion-bonded tritanium carbide, similar to the main load-bearing space frame members. These are designed to accept and transfer energy from the structural integrity field generators, locking the two vehicles together. The dorsal surfaces of the grab plates are layers with standard ablative hull coatings for exposure to the general space environment and warp flight stresses. The latching system has been designed to accept a failure rate f 1.5 latch pairs per ten separations; in the event a single pair fails to seat properly within its passive aperture, the structural loads can be shared adequately among the other latches.
Each electro fluidic piston consists of a main fluid reservoir, magnetic valve controller block, piston computer controller, attach brackets, pressure manifolds, and redundant sensor assemblies. Piston operation is maintained under computer control to assure smooth activation of all latches simultaneously, though under emergency conditions a manual latching option is available.
Quick-disconnect umbilicals set into the vehicle interface, which normally allow for the unbroken flow of gases, liquids, waveguide energy, computer information, and other data channels, are isolated once the separation sequence is commanded.
The vehicle interface also accommodates a set of standard turbo lift pass-throughs, including the dedicated emergency turbo to the Battle Bridge. These shafts are equipped with automatic path termination seals, which have been designed to double as airlock modules. If either separated vehicle docks at another Starfleet facility at the vehicle interface, the termination seals retreat to their default positions just under the turbo lift shafts.
SEPARATION SYSTEM OPERATION
In the docked configuration, the passive apertures retain the grab plates in their fully deployed positions, and a structural locking wedge is driven into the gap between the plates. Energy from the structural integrity field (SIF) is conducted through the grab plates to rigidize the combined vehicle. All umbilicals would operate normally to transfer consumables and information. The turbo lifts move normally between the Saucer Module to the Battle Section. At the confirmed signal for Saucer Module separation, once an assigned crew has occupied the Battle Bridge, computer event timers dead face all interconnects by commanding all umbilical blocks to shut down and retract to safe housings, and turbo lift termination seals to drop into their deploy positions. Should any key umbilicals or turbo paths slow a failure condition at the vehicle interface, the computer will close off the affected elements at the best possible point upstream of the failure. Hardware and software failures will then be dealt with later, once the emergency situation is resolved. Crews on both sides of the vehicle interface monitor the progress of the separation sequence, and are then on standby awaiting reconnection duties.
Once all systems are safed, preparatory to the -Y transitional maneuver, the latch wedge blocks are retracted and the grab plates are moved together. If the maneuver is conducted at sub light, there exists an option to postpone the latch retract into the Battle Section, in case a rapid reconnection is required. Once into warp flight, however, this option is cancelled, as the latches must retract quickly to minimize vehicle stresses and any chance of collision with the Saucer Module.
The separation maneuver will cause the two vehicle components to behave differently from a flight dynamics standpoint, and vehicle velocity at the time of separation will further increase the differences in handling characteristics. The main computers aboard each vessel, interacting with their respective engines, SIF, and the inertial damping field (IDF), will perform real time adjustments to compensate for vehicle-induced oscillations or extremely forced motions. As the Saucer Module is equipped with impulse propulsion, computational modeling has verified that special cautions must be observed when attempting separation at high warp factors. Prior to leaving the protection of the Battle Section's warp field, the Saucer Module SIF, IDF, and shield grid are run at high output, and its four forward deflectors take over to sweep away debris in the absence of the dish of the Battle Section. Decaying warp field energy surrounding the Saucer Module is managed by the driver coil segments of the impulse engines. This energy will take, on average, two minutes to dissipate and bring the vehicle to its original sub-light velocity.
EMERGENCY LANDING OF SAUCER MODULE
In the event the Saucer Module is disabled near a planetary body and cannot maintain a stable orbit, landing the saucer is the final option. This is to be attempted only when ac acceptable chance of success has been computed and all other available procedures have failed, short of total evacuation by lifeboat modules. If the senior officer aboard the Saucer Module makes the decision that the attempt must be made, special sets of crew procedures and stored computer commands will be implemented. While extensive computer modeling has been taken into account in creating the landing programs, no guarantee as to their effectiveness can yet be offered. SIF reinforcement of the saucer framework is believed necessary to avoid exceeding saucer structure limits during atmospheric entry of a Class-M planet.
Without at least minimal reinforcement, aerodynamic loads associated with most entry profiles may result in space-frame destruction prior to landing. As it was deemed too costly to subject a Galaxy-class space-frame to a full-up atmosphere entry test, the computer model is the best available reference. Starfleet has recorded a total of three data sets from previous smaller starship hull landings, and these were extremely helpful in the design of the computer routines. Conventional wisdom believes, however, that the Galaxy-class hull is still outside the survivable performance envelope and would be unable to successfully perform a de-orbit and entry into a Class-M compatible atmosphere.
A complex set of terrain touchdown options reside in the main computers, taking into account such factors as contact material, air density, humidity, and temperature. If there is an adequate amount of time for sensor scans during the approach, the sensor values will be compared to those in memory, and the appropriate control adjustments can be sent to the impulse engines and field devices. Beach sand, deep water, smooth ice, and grassy plains on Class-M bodies are preferable sites; in contrast, certain terrain types have not been modeled, such as mountainous surfaces. Other non-terrestrial bodies may posses survivable surfaces, and their suitability as landing sites will depend on the specific situation, computer recommendations, and command decisions.
Naturally, many other planetary types will possess environments so hostile to crew survival that remaining in orbit will be a preferable option, unless emergency landing is mandated by tactical considerations.
Prior to landing on a Class-M planet (as only one example), the structural integrity field and inertial damping field would be set to high output, with the SIF also set to flex the vehicle in small, controlled amounts for shock attenuation. The deflector grid will be set to high output as well, with its field decay radius configured to optimize the Saucer Module's final slide-out distance while applying a controlled friction effect. During approach the computer would take atmospheric readings and make adjustments along the descent, and command and deflector field to perform airflow and steering changes. In the event computer control is limited, the Flight Control Officer (Conn) should be able to make manual attitude control inputs from his/her panel. The IDF would be configured to "jolt mode" during major impacts, if they exceed certain preset translational limits. The deflector field is designed to protect the vehicle hull, though only up to the specified load limits when the hull must make contact with the ground. If the SIF, IDF, and deflector grid are all functioning during slide-out, they can add a great deal to minimizing impact forces.
It is assumed that the vehicle would be a total loss insofar as ever being returned to operational service, due to the extreme loads placed upon it, which would result in deep, unrecoverable alloy damage. Post-landing mission rules call for full security measures to protect the crew and vehicle while awaiting Starfleet assistance. Numerous options have been documented, from simple waiting within Federation or allied territory, to total evacuation and vehicle destruction in areas controlled by Threat forces.
COMMAND SYSTEMS
MAIN BRIDGE
Primary operational control of the Galaxy-class starship is provided by the Main Bridge, located at the top of the Saucer Module on Deck 1. The Main Bridge directly supervises all primary mission operations and coordinates all departmental activities.
The central are of the Main Bridge provides seating and information displays for the commander and two other officers. Directly fore of the command area are the Operations Manager and the Flight Control Officer, both of whom face the main viewer.
Directly aft of the command area is an elevated platform on which is located the tactical control station. Also located on the platform are five workstations, nominally configured as Science I, Science II, Mission Operations (Ops), Environment, and Engineering.
At the very front of the bridge chamber is located a large 4.8 x 2.5 meter visual display panel. This main viewer is generally used to display the output of one of the forward optical scanners, but can easily be reset for any other visual, informational, or communications use. When in communications mode, the main viewer shares the use of a dedicated sub processor, which permits near-instantaneous conversion and display of nearly any visual communications format. The main viewer display matrix includes omni-holographic display elements and is thus capable of displaying three-dimensional information.
Behind the aft workstation is a 3.2 meter equipment bay, normally sealed to crew personnel. This equipment bay houses three of the seven dedicated bridge computer optical sub processors, and six of the twelve shared sub processors. Also located in this equipment bay are several power, environmental, and optical data trunk connects. The remaining computer sub processors are located in smaller equipment bays integral to the aft stations, in the side bays port and starboard of the command area, and in the deck structure between Conn and Ops and the main viewer.
Other facilities located on Deck 1 include the captain's ready room and head, the aft observation lounge, and the crew head adjoining the bridge itself. Both the bridge and the captain's ready room are equipped with food replication terminals.
Major connects to the bridge include two standard turbo lift shafts, one emergency turbo shaft, and four electro plasma power distribution waveguide conduits. Additional connects include four environmental support plenum groups, nine primary and two backup optical data network trunks, two replicator waveguide conduits, and three service crawlways.
Because of the criticality of bridge systems, especially in emergency situations, the Main Bridge is designated as an emergency environmental support shelter, receiving priority life support from two special protected utilities trunks. These feeds permit Class-M conditions to be maintained for up to seventy-two hours even in the event of a failure of both primary and reserve environmental systems. Also provided within the bridge shell are two emergency atmospheric and power supply modules, each capable of providing up to twenty-four hours of atmosphere and lighting in the event of total environmental systems failure.
The Main Bridge is connected to the space frame structure with a series of 320 7.2 cm duranium fastening rods. These fasteners can be disengaged at major starbase layover, permitting disconnect and replacements of the entire bridge module. Torsion relief and vibration damping are provided by a series of 17mm micro foamed AGP semi flexible ceramic gaskets which form the mechanical interface between the structures. The Main Bridge shell is constructed from an interlaced micro foam duranium filament shell gamma-welded to a titanium truss structural framework. The inner environment envelope is composite segments, providing both atmospheric integrity and thermal insulation.
During the initial space worthiness tests of the original U.S.S. Galaxy prototype vessel, the standard Galaxy-class bridge module was not yet fully operational. Instead, a custom-built module was used that was equipped with independent life-support and sub light propulsion capabilities. This unit was used as a self-contained crew compartment during the initial shakedown and could have been ejected, carrying the crew to safety in the event of a catastrophic failure of the space frame or propulsion system.
It is anticipated that the current bridge configuration of the Galaxy-class starship will remain relatively unchanged for a number of years. Current planning calls or annual design reviews of the bridge and control systems, with major system replacements projected at twenty-year intervals.
BRIDGE OPERATIONS
Operational authority for the starship rests with the Commanding Officer (usually the captain or duty officer). The Commanding Officer is responsible for execution of Starfleet orders and policy, as well as for interpretation and compliance with Federation law and diplomatic directives. As such, the Commanding Officer is directly answerable to Starfleet Command for the performance of the ship.
The Main Bridge is directly responsible for the supervision of all primary mission functions. Through the Operations Manager, the bridge also monitors all secondary mission functions to provide an optimal operating state. The multi-mission operational profile of the Galaxy-class requires extensive coordination between different departments.
The Main Bridge also serves as a command center during alert and crisis situations. During Separated Flight Mode, combat operations are managed from the Battle Bridge, while control of the Saucer Section remains with the Main Bridge. In such scenarios, the ship's captain and senior officers will generally command the Battle Section, while a designated junior officer will assume responsibility for the Saucer Section.
BRIDGE OPERATIONS DURING ALERT CONDITIONS
CRUISE MODE
This is the normal operating status of the spacecraft. Cruise Mode operating rules require a minimum bridge staff of Commanding Officer (typically the captain), Flight Control Officer, Operations Manager, and at least once other officer available to serve at tactical or other stations as required. Other stations may be attended as specific mission requirements dictate.
YELLOW ALERT
During Yellow Alert condition, all active bridge stations are automatically brought to Full Enable Mode. Auto diagnostics (Level 4) are initiated for all primary and tactical systems. Ops is responsible for evaluating all current operations and shipboard activities and suspending any that may interfere with ship's readiness to respond to potential crisis situations.
RED ALERT
During Red Alert condition, all bridge stations are automatically brought to Full Enable Mode. Tactical systems are placed on full alert and, if unoccupied, the duty security chief will occupy the bridge Tactical station.
BASIC CONTROL PANEL/ TERMINAL USE
Control/ display panels aboard the Galaxy-class are software-defined surfaces that are continually updated and reconfigured for maximum operator efficiency and ease of use. Each panel is tied into a local sub processor that continually monitors panel activity and compares it to predefined scenarios and operational profiles. This permits the computer to continually update the panel configuration to provide the operator with a current menu of the most likely current actions. This also provides the operator with sufficient information and flexibility to determine and execute non-programmed instructions, if desired.
Layout of the display surface is designed for maximum intuitive grouping of related functions and for logical organizational flow of operation. The library computer access and retrieval system (LCARS) software continually monitors operator activity and continually reconfigures the display surface to present the operator with a selection of the most frequently chosen courses of action in that particular situation. The LCARS software also provides the operator with full information (to the level selected by the operator or by operating rules) to choose any other legal action.
Most panels are also configured to accept vocal input, although keyboard in put is preferred in most situations for greater operating speed and reduced chance of input errors by voice discriminator algorithms.
Cruise Mode operating rules allow for each crew member to define a customized operating configuration for his/her work station. This means that crew members are free to configure panel layout and procedural menus to suit personal working styles and levels of training. In the case where a system upgrade has recently been installed, but the duty officer has not yet been trained on the new configuration, panel software can usually be instructed to emulate the previous version until the individual has been properly certified. Standard configuration can be activated at any time, and Full Enable configuration is automatically activated during Alert status.
CONTROL/DISPLAY PANELS
Control/display surfaces are composed of three basic layers. The outmost layer is fabricated from a 2.5 mm tripolymer-coated transparent aluminum water into which is imbedded a sensor matrix. This matrix detects tactile input by the operator's fingertips. Also incorporated into this layer is a transducer matrix that provides tactile and auditory feedback to the operator, indicating that a particular control surface address has been activated.
The aluminum surface water is chemically bonded onto a triaxial optical display crystal membrane, which serves as a high resolution graphic display medium. Monocrystal micro waveguides at 1.8 mm intervals provide electro plasma system power transmission to the upper sensor matrix and transducer layers.
The substrate of the control surface is composed of micro foamed polyduranide sheeting, which provides structural integrity to the assembly. Incorporated into this layer is a matrix of optical nanoprocessors that permit the display surface sheeting to be self-configuring, once addressed and initialized by the local processor node. For redundancy's sake the panel nanoprocessors include sufficient nonvolatile memory to permit system operation, even in the absence of main computer support.
FLIGHT CONROL (CONN)
The Flight Control console, often referred to as Conn, is responsible for the actual piloting and navigation of the spacecraft. Although these are heavily automated functions, their criticality demands a human officer to oversee these operations at all times. The Flight Control Officer (also referred to as Conn) receives instructions directly from the Commanding Officer.
There are five major areas of responsibility for the Flight Control Officer:
Navigational references/ course plotting
Supervision of automatic flight operations
Manual flight operations
Position verification
Bridge liaison to Engineering department
During impulse powered spaceflight, Conn is responsible for monitoring relativistic effects as well as inertial damping system status. In the event that a requested maneuver exceeds the capacity of the inertial damping system, the computer will request Conn to modify the flight plan to bring it within the permitted performance envelope. During Alert status, flight rules permit Conn to specify maneuvers that are potentially dangerous to the crew or the spacecraft.
Warp flight operating rules require Conn to monitor subspace field geometry in parallel with the Engineering department. During warp flight, the Flight Control console continually updates long-range sensor data and makes automatic course corrections to adjust for minor variations in the density of the interstellar medium.
Because of the criticality of Flight Control in spacecraft operations, particularly during crisis situations, Conn is connected to a dedicated back-up flight operations sub processor to provide for manual flight control. This equipment package includes emergency navigation sensors.
SPECIFIC DUTIES
NAVIGATIONAL REFERNCE/COURSE PLOTTING
The Flight Control console displays readings from navigational and tactical sensors, overlaying them on current positional data feeds from secondary navigation and science sensors for verification of primary sensor data. Such cross-checks are automatically performed at each change-of-shift and upon activation of Alert status.
MANUAL FLIGHT OPERATIONS
The actual execution of flight instructions is generally left to computer control, but Conn has the option of exercising manual control over helm and navigational functions. In full manual mode, Conn can actually steer the ship under keypad control. 
REACTION CONTROL SYSTEM (RCS)
Although the actual vector and sequence control of the system is normally automated, Conn has the option of manually commanding the RCS system or individual thrusters.
Conn also serves as a liaison to the Engineering department in that he/she is responsible for monitoring propulsion system status and providing system status reports to the commanding officer in the absence of an engineering officer's presence on the bridge.
FLIGHT INFORMATION INPUT
There are five standard input modes available for specification of spacecraft flight paths. Any of these options may be entered either by keyboard or by vocal command. In each case, Flight Control software will automatically determine an optimal flight path conforming to Starfleet flight and safety rules. Co
