FLEET: Maquis fighters

A variety of ships used by Maquis freedom fighters to fight against the Cardassians within the demilitarized zone of the Federation/Cardassian border, and the areas around the Bajoran sector. Many of these ships are officially unknown to Starfleet or the Federation since the Maquis do not operate, nor acquire their ships legally. Many ships are stolen from Starfleet and Federation centers and modified to carry stolen weapons.
They have been sought after by Starfleet in an attempt to maintain the peace with the Cardassian Union. In one attempt to trap the Maquis, Starfleet let a Yridian convoy travel with information released that they were assisting the Cardassian colonies within the DMZ. The Maquis formed an attack wing, but were warned of the ambush by Ensign Ro Laren from the U.S.S. Enterprise-D. Another attempt used the U.S.S. Voyager and its staff to infiltrate a Maquis crew and arrest the wanted criminals. That ship along with its crew, the under cover officer, and the Voyager were all swept into the Delta Quadrant and Captain Janeway did collect the rogues and proceeded to return to Federation space with them.  
One type of ship that seems to be a favorite among Maquis fighters is the modified Federation Peregrine-class courier. A few of these have been found being operated by Maquis personnel, as reported by Cardassian commanders.
An abortive raid on the Bryma colony used two warp-capable craft, pumped up with recently acquired weapons - the only two ships in possession by the Maquis which could handle them. The small ship had a squarish cramped cabin for its a crew of two, with the pilot seated to port. The ships were of Federation design. For the Bryma raid, a phaser emitter was located just under the forward nose, and photon torpedoes were fired from a tube forward; at least five were fired consecutively. A pulse cannon unit fired distinct and thin light-yellow beams from each forward mid-wing, vectoring in to hit a single target. It is unknown, but one of these early ships may have been the Federation-built support cruiser used by United Federation of Planets colonists only days earlier. 
Chakotay's Maquis fighter ship was a common design among the Maquis. Its engine, at least, is 39 years old (from 2332) and has been rebuilt once. Armament included phasers of an orange-colored beam and photon torpedoes fired one at a time out the rear vents. Despite its small size, a fuel line could rupture and not be catastrophic. Systems could be easily reconfigured, even under duress. At least part of the power reactor is in impulse generators. 

SHIPS IN USE:
Peregrine-class couriers

Reference: The Maquis, Preemptive Strike, Caretaker
Information provided by:
The Continuum, www.startrek.com, @2002 Paramount Pictures
The Encyclopedia, www.simonsays.com/st, @1997 Pocket Books, Michael & Denise Okuda, Debbie Mirek


