STATIONS: Pulsa-class

A large round Vulcan commercial and military station used by the sovereign Vulcan government. These stations were built long before Vulcan made first contact with other Federation species, except for their neighbors, the Andorians. This station was then used for building, maintaining, and servicing the Vulcan cruising fleet. As trade routes opened up and included Vulcan ports, these stations were modified to accommodate the unique starship designs of alien races. After the formation of the Starfleet, Vulcan interests were driven to help the young alliance and the stations were modified again to accommodate the larger craft used by Starfleet. Once the Starfleet was established, the modifications already made to the stations were more than adequate to serve useful purposes for the Starfleet-Vulcan hybrids built after that point.
The station looks coincidentally like a large rotary telephone, complete with ten holes in a circular pattern and one large hole in the center. These ten ports are docking stations for Vulcan cruisers and dry-dock for cruisers under construction. When the Starfleet ships were designed, their saucers were made larger than Vulcan ships at the same time so the station was modified by making half of these ports larger; enough to fit a saucer into it. When the hybrids were being constructed, their saucers were made on the same plans as the Starfleet ships so they could also fit in the enlarged ports.
All of the ports, large and small, were modified with universal docking collars early on,  during the rerouting of the interstellar trade routes. These modifications included some telescoping gondolas and other devices to assist with alien designs. Tractor beam emitters were added to each port as well; three in 60 degree arcs around the interior perimeter of the ports to hold craft in place, pull them in or push them out of docking, and for other safety movement.
The facilities around the docking ports were created as cargo bays so that goods would not have to be moved too far from their next destination. The docking/ cargo ring makes up the largest portion of these stations and is the central most section on the wheel. These ports have also been used to repair and build cruisers for the Vulcan fleet. Often a transport, loaded with raw materials will dock at a port, transfer all goods to the neighboring cargo holds, and leave. With the materials close by engineering teams would have an easy time assembling the local parts.
The central hole was originally created as a viewing area with residential quarters around its perimeter. As larger and more unique alien vessels began to travel to Vulcan these areas were converted to extra large docking ports by adding the telescoping gondolas and multiple sets of tractor beam emitters; eighteen in all. Some of the residences were removed to allow for the modifications and for a couple cargo holds, but most remained in place.
The outer ring comprises the control features of the station. The command center, engineering, security, tactical control, life support, and all other services are located within this ring. The outermost hull is covered with sensor pallets, subspace radio equipment, shield emitters, torpedo launchers, phaser emitters, tractor beam emitters, and a couple thruster packs for station orbit modifications. Most of the station's offices, embassies, and residential services are located within this ring as well. The hospital, commercial shops, entertainment centers, conference centers, religious temples and other stores are found on Vulcan stations amongst the military and government offices.

Reference: pon-farr
Information provided by:
Starfleet Academy, www.geocities.com/starfleet_academy_2373, @2000 Kenn Ferguson
