TECHNOLOGY: Orb

Also known as the Celestial Orb of the Prophets or Tears of the Prophets, these high energy communications devices were sent by the wormhole aliens (also known as The Prophets) to other non-corporeal races. They were sent through the Bajoran wormhole (also known as the Celestial Temple) and were intercetped by the Bajoran people who saw these as messages to them. They reveared the objects and used them for spiritual enlightenment.
During the Cardassian Occuaption of Bajor many of the Orbs were taken back to Cardassia for study. One Orb was kept hidden by Kai Opaka and her predecessors. When Commander Benjamin Sisko arrived at the newly renamed Deep Space Nine he was recognized as The Emissary of the Prophets and was given the Orb for study and enlightenment. Sisko assigned Liautenant Jadzia Dax, station's science officer, to examine the Orb. Orbs have been available for review in Deep Space Nine's Bajoran Temple, and non-Bajorans have sought its guidance.
Users of the Orbs often experience an Orb experience, hallucinations thought to be sent by the Prophets. Occassionally users also experience an Orb Shadow, a hallucination long after the actual Orb visit.
The Orbs are kept in ornamental cases, also called an ark, that conceal the Orb from being seen by accident.
Major Kira used the Orb of Time to learn more about her family after Gul Dukat made unflattering claims about Kira Meru.
A vision experienced by Captain Benjamin Sisko caused him to search for a yet unwitnessed relic, The Orb of the Emissary.
Grand Nagus Zek acquired an Orb which he planned to sell back to the Bajoran Government until he was altered by the Prophets after a visit to them in the wormhole.
Bareil Antos from the Mirror Universe experienced a vision from the Orb of Prophecy and Change. And Captain Sisko asked Kai Winn to assist him with an experience with that same Orb.
Orbs include:
The Orb of Time

Reference: Emissary, The Circle, Prophet Motive, The Accession, Resurrection, Trials and Tribble-ations, Rapture, Wrongs Darker than Death or Night, Tears of the Prophets, Image in the Sand, Shadows and Symbols



