PERSONNEL: Kris Branigan
Cadet 1st class, operations division, Starfleet Academy

Kris Branigan was originally born on Qo'noS, but his mother left and stayed on Earth after experiencing 10 years of humiliation (because of a Klingon eloping with a human) that both her and her husband, Kalagh were subjected to. She insisted that her child and husband stay in the Klingon Empire so that he may learn to be a warrior, but eventually, Kalagh could not bare the disgrace he bore. He then left Qo'noS with Kris and arrived at Earth to stay with his wife.
He was always encouraged to join Starfleet as soon as he was old enough. He was taught how to fight and be a strong leader by his father, Kalagh. As soon as he came of age, he did join the academy. He had been known as one of the enterprising young cadets who would go far. His lust for exploration and knowledge has shown him to be a valuable officer on any ship. His natural leadership abilities have often got him into trouble but with the help of the Academy, his skills were refined and incorporated into his passion, tactical science. 
In an alternate reality discovered by Kris and a small crew on board a runabout returning from the Academy Flight Range in orbit of Saturn he was able to pick up a biography file of what his future might be like. It stated that his first assignement would be aboard the U.S.S. Spyder. It also said that Branigan had been commented on as being one the fastest rising officers in Starfleet. His participation in the resistance against the Cardassians terrorists in 2383 had shown him to be a true leader. It was at this point he rose to the rank of lieutenant during his 8-year service on the U.S.S. Spyder.
He then served aboard the U.S.S Mustang to explore the appearance of four unknown anomalies in the Cardassian sector when the war was nearing its decline. But due to complications, he was forced to spend 3 years in that region instead of the expected 12 months. After this he was transferred to one of the Romulan outposts as a tactical commander because of the escalation in Romulan activity.
After the development of tetryon based warp drive, he was commissioned to the U.S.S Miata in 2398 to begin exploration of the delta quadrant, as a follow up for information obtained by the U.S.S Voyager.

TIMELINE:
2357:	Born on Qo'noS. 
2363:	Transported to Earth for habitation 
2373:	Accepted into Starfleet Academy
Future predictions
2377:	Graduated from Starfleet Academy and commissioned as Ensign to U.S.S. Spyder.
2382: Promoted to Lieutenant and Chief Tactical Officer
2387:	Commissioned to the U.S.S Mustang as helmsman
2389:	Promoted to Captain.
2390:	Commissioned to Romulan outpost as Chief Tactical Officer.
2393:	Commissioned to the U.S.S Miata as starship commander.

FAMILY:
Father:	Kalagh			2340
Mother:	Annemarie Branigan	2338
Siblings:	John Branigan		2370
Paternal
Father:	Drouka, son of Malak	2310
Mother: 	Unknown			2318 - 2362
Maternal
Father:	Andrew Branigan		2312 	
Mother:	Julia (McIntyre)		2314

COURSEWORK:
CLASSIFIED

Reference:
Information provided by:
Starfleet Academy, www.geocities.com/starfleet_academy_2373, @2000 Kenn Ferguson
