PERSONNEL: Crec
Captain, starship commander, I.K.C. Br'Muk

An older Klingon warrior in command of the K'vort-class bird of prey, I.K.C. Br'Muk that performed regular scouting missions for the Klingon Empire and for the House of Duras. Originally Crec was denied admission into the Klingon Defense Force because of his low stature in Klingon society. So to gain importance he petitioned Ja'rod to nominate him to the group. In return for Ja'rod's help he had to pledge himself to his House, which Crec did. When Ja'rod's son, Duras, earned a seat on the High Council Crec officially accepted the change in power and became part of the House of Duras, continuing his loyal work to the family and the Empire.
In 2368, during the Klingon Civil War, he was placed on the side of Duras' sisters who were trying to install his half son, Toral, as the new head of state. He took the Br'Muk to Ty'Gokor where he performed cloaked observations of the stations in the area in order to keep his House informed of changes in Gowron's plans.
During the civil war he served with Dargo, also of the House of Duras, where that officer was a junior operator of tactical systems and sensors. During a contest of honor, Dargo challenged the ship's executive officer and won; earning the respect of the crew and the new rank of commander and executive officer. With the help of Dargo, the Br'Muk and Crec claimed much glory for the House of Duras and the Klingon Empire.
Crec continued to command the Br'Muk during the attacks on Cardassia Prime and its territories in an attempt to overthrow their government that they believed was infiltrated by Founders. When tensions between the Federation and Qo'noS escalated to the point that the Khitomer Accords were withdrawn, the Br'Muk served within Federation space again as a cloaked spy ship. When tensions eased again, and cooperation with the Federation formed the allied power structure during the Dominion War, the Br'Muk was placed on front line duty, destroying dozens of Axis ships. 
After the end of the Dominion War, the ship was recalled to Qo'noS for upgrades. Crec landed the ship in hangars at the Duras homestead and returned to his family during the refit project. Dargo requested his help during his trials in front of the High Council when that officer challenged Federation Ambassador Worf for misconduct and abuse of power of his position when he expelled the officer from Earth and the Starfleet Academy.

Reference: Dargo's Commission
Information provided by:
Starfleet Academy, www.geocities.com/starfleet_academy_2373, @2000 Kenn Ferguson
