PERSONNEL: George

The male of a pair of humpback whales rescued from poachers in 1986 and transported forward in time to stardate 8390 to replenish the species and to send a message to the Cetacean probe that was wreaking havoc to Earth's atmosphere. His mate was Gracie. The two wandered into San Francisco Bay as young whales and were taken to the Cetacean Institute where they were placed into a huge aquarium for the viewing of patrons. The two mated and successfully conceived a child. But they were also in danger when budget restrictions forced the Institute to release them back into the wild. The two were tagged with radio transmitters so that scientists could track their migratory patterns and maintain an idea of their general well being. 
In a time-travel move by Captain James Kirk and his crew, formerly of the U.S.S. Enterprise but now limited to the confiscated Klingon B'Rel-class bird of prey dubbed the H.M.S. Bounty, they returned to old Earth in an attempt to collect a pair of humpback whales. When they were successful in identifying George & Gracie at the Institute, they traveled to the center to investigate. Mr. Spock  performed a mild meld where he was able to convey the wishes of the crew and enlisted the help of the whales for their future use. Mr. Spock also learned that the duo were truly unhappy about the exploitation and near extinction of whales from poachers at sea.
George and Gracie were suddenly transported by a special Boeing 747 to Alaska where they were released into the wild, near the Bering Sea. The Bounty was able to locate the pair and transported them into the future where they were released into the San Francisco Bay. Then George made contact with the Cetacean Probe and convinced it to leave Earth orbit and restore the planet's atmosphere and artificial satellites with power.
George & Gracie remained under the supervision of Dr. Jillian Taylor, a marine biologist from 1986 who tricked Captain Kirk into taking her into the future with him and the whales. 
The two were named after a famous comedy duo of early 20th century radio and television, George Burns and Gracie Allen.

Reference: The Voyage Home
The full-sized whales seen on the surface where supervised by Michael Lantieri, intercut with a couple of shots of real humpbacks in the ocean near Maui that were filmed by John Ferrari. The underwater versions of George & Gracie were models created by Walt Conti, who was also responsible for Ensign Darwin on seaQuest DSV.
Information provided by:
Star Trek Encyclopedia, www.simonsays.com/st, @1997 Pocket Books
