PERSONNEL: Jen'Toa Manamei
Commander

BORN: 2175
PLACE OF BIRTH: Mim'Tarnos
ORIGIN: Mim
ASSIGNMENT: U.S.S. Bishop NCC-30378
LAST SHIP: U.S.S. Mastoni NCC-44265
ACADEMY CLASS: 2357, 99th percentile
BIOGRAPHICAL DETAILS: Jen'Toa comes from a race that, because of their skin color, the Humans referred to as the Gray's. The actual name of the race, Mim, was taken from the name of the planet the race originated from, Mim'Tarnos. The planet was destroyed in 2173 when it's sun went Nova. Jen'Toa was the Earth equivalent of 2 years old when his planet was evacuated by the few surviving groups of Mim's that survived the radiation bursts that preceded their sun's destruction. The ship the survivors used to escape had barely enough energy to get them to the nearest solar system that had a habitable planet. A new colony was formed and Jen'Toa and the other survivors had a hard life trying to rebuild their lives with nothing to work with except the ship in which they had landed. In hopes that another race would find them, the survivors powered the ships distress signal with the last shard of dilitheum crystal that they had left. In the Earth year 2350 the Starfleet Vessel U.S.S. Roswell was surveying the system and picked up the faint distress signal coming from a small village on the third planet in the system. A landing party was sent to the location and made contact with the survivors. Since there were only 47 survivors, the Starfleet officers offered to take them to a better place. Since they had lived on the planet for so long, 31 of the Mim's decided to stay behind and live in their new home.  Captain Grant, of the U.S.S. Roswell, gave supplies to the Mim's as well as an industrial replicator. Jen'Toa decided to leave and he said good-bye to his Mother Jana'Toa Manamei who had had a hard time rearing him on their new planet. After arriving on Earth in the year 2351, Jen'Toa decided to join Starfleet.
STARFLEET DETAILS: After leaving the Academy, Jen'Toa was assigned to the U.S.S. Mastoni under Captain Jerrod April. Jen'Toa served as a science officer for 4 years where he quickly rose to the rank of Lieutenant. A year and a half later he saved the Planet Gardri 4 from being destroyed by a supernova by restoring the star to it's normal state. His solution to stopping the supernova caused scientists from all over the Federation to take notice of his work. Captain April promoted Jen'Toa to Lieutenant Commander and informed Jen'Toa that he was authorized to offer him a scientific research position at Starfleet Command. Jen'Toa accepted the offer and transferred to Earth two months later. Jen'Toa is currently assigned to the U.S.S. Bishop as First Officer.
-FURTHER INFORMATION RESTRICTED-
EVALUATION: Jen'Toa has extensive knowledge in Science, Engineering, Security and Command. He is a good all around officer and works well in any position on a ship.
ACHIEVEMENTS, AWARDS: Advanced Engineering and Science expert; First Level Pilot Certificate; Preantears Ribbon of Excellence; Federation Ribbon of Excellence in Engineering; Starfleet Citation for Conspicuous Bravery; Starfleet Distinguished Service Medal; Einstein award of Scientific breakthrough.
FAMILY: mother, Jana'Toa Manamei; father, Doja'Tani Manamei deceased;
INTERESTS: Warp field theory, gravimetric distortions, temporal travel theories, and planetary cultural histories.

