PERSONNEL: Kang
Dahar Master, starship commander, I.K.S. K'Tanco

A legendary Klingon warrior whom had poems written about him. "The Fall of Kang" was required reading at Starfleet Academy (even though the warrior wasn't yet dead). Kang was the victim of the beta XII-A entity that destroyed his ship and trapped his crew aboard the starship Enterprise in 2268. Kang's wife Mara and 38 members of his crew fought an equal number of Enterprise crew members in a seemingly endless battle controlled by the Beta XII-A entity until both sides discovered that peaceful cooperation was the only way to survive.
Kang served as part of the Klingon mediation team sent to negotiate with Federation representatives. In 2289, he and Curzon Dax, one of the Federation representatives became good friends and he named his first born son after the man. That son, along with the first born sons of Koloth and Kor, were murdered by a criminal dubbed The Albino who had sought retaliation for their involvement in stopping his raid on a Klingon colony in 2293. He tracked down the Albino on Secarus IV and reunited the other members of the Blood Oath; Kor, Koloth, and Dax, now within the Jadzia host. Despite the ambush that waited, the group was able to defeat The Albino's defenses and Kang struck the killing blow to the honorless convict. He died as a result of wounds sustained in the fight.
Kor and Koloth joined Kang in a fight against T'nag and his army where they emerged victorious despite the overwhelming odds. Kang was also responsible for defenses during the assassination of Chancellor Gorkon. He and his starship were patrolling the Federation border when the U.S.S. Excelsior, under the command of Captain Hikaru Sulu, attempted to cross the boundary through the Azure Nebula in hopes of meeting up with the U.S.S. Enterprise-A and mounting a rescue of Captain James Kirk and Doctor Leonard McCoy from Rura Penthe. 

TIMELINE:
: Born
2268: Engaged the U.S.S. Enterprise and the Beta XII-A entity
2289: Negotiated with the Federation against Curzon Dax
2290: Stopped the Albino's colony raids
: Son, Dax, born
2293: Encountered the U.S.S. Excelsior within the Azure Nebula
: Lost his son, Dax, and swore a blood oath for revenge against The Albino
23##: Defeated T'nag
2370: Died fighting The Albino

FAMILY:
Wife: Mara
Son: Dax

Reference: Day of the Dove, Blood Oath, Flashback
Played by Michael Ansara whom also played Lwaxana's fiance Jeyal in "The Muse."
Information provided by:
The Continuum, www.startrek.com, @2002 2006 CBS Studios, Paramount Pictures
The Encyclopedia, www.simonsays.com/st, @1997 Pocket Books, Michael & Denise Okuda, Debbie Mirek
Star Trek in Sound & Vision, www.stinsv.com, @2003 Dave & Richard
LCARS Communications Network, www.lcarscom.net, @2002 Sean Stevenson
Star Trek in Sound and Vision, www.startrek.com, @2003 Dave & Richard

