PERSONNEL: Koloth
Dahar Master, diplomatic officer, I.K.S. Gr'oth

A Klingon Dahar Master and comrade of Kang and Kor who was still spry, steely and stealthy after more than a century's service in the Klingon military; Curzon Dax had called him 'D'akturak' 'ice man' for his toughness in negotiating when they squared off against each other. 
As the captain of the I.K.S. Gr'oth who faced James Kirk at Space Station K-7 during the Sherman's Planet affair in 2268, he once defeated T'nag and his army with only colleagues Kang and Kor, according to Kor's tale in 2372, later feasting on the leader's heart. He personally attacked T'nag's flank with only a disruptor and a bat'leth, killing two dozen men; for at least Koloth it was out of vengeance. Death came heroically with Kang in 2370 while fulfilling their blood oath with Kor and Dax against the Albino the marauder who had killed the Klingon trio's firstborn, all sons in 2290. He had no respect for Kor's drunkenness, his demeanor even affected Odo but Kor vowed to sing of his valor forever. 

Reference: The Trouble With Tribbles, Blood Oath, Trials and Tribble-ations, The Sword of Kahless
Played by William Campbell who also played Squire Trelane in "The Squire of Gothos." After the episode was completed, he and many others collected some of the Tribble props for gifts and mementos. He gave many of them to the neighborhood children near his home. He toured the Star Trek convention circuit, as did many Trek stars, discovered the going value of the animals, and regretted his choice to give the souvenirs. To that end he attempet to contact the recipients to ask about getting them back without success. His son, William O. Campbell, played Thadium Okona in "The Outrageous Okona."
Information provided by:
The Continuum, www.startrek.com, @2002 2006 CBS Studios, Paramount Pictures
The Encyclopedia, www.simonsays.com/st, @1997 Pocket Books, Michael & Denise Okuda, Debbie Mirek
Special Edition, www.scifi.com, @1997 SciFi Channel
Star Trek in Sound and Vision, www.stinsv.com, @2003 Dave & Richard
