PERSONNEL: Kor
Dahar Master, diplomatic officer

Legendary Klingon warrior and Dahar Master whose voice has weighed heavily on the course of Klingon history for over 100 years. 
In 2267, Kor headed an invasion task force during a border dispute with the United Federation of Planets, and served as military governor over the primitive culture on Organia during a brief occupation of that planet. Kor ruled with an iron fist until the Organians revealed themselves to be powerful noncorporeal entities seeking to avoid conflict in their corner of the galaxy. The incident led to the historic Organian Peace Treaty between the Klingon Empire and the Federation. 
Three years later, Kor led a decisive Klingon victory over the Romulans in the Battle of Klach D'Kel Brakt. It was shortly after this that he was awarded the title of Dahar Master, which is bestowed upon only the greatest of Klingon warriors. Kor, along with comrades Kang and Koloth, also fought a glorious battle against T'nag and his army, emerging victorious despite overwhelming odds. Some of Kor's other triumphs include his valiant defense of the Korma Pass and his attack on Romulus. 
The warrior's life was turned upside down in 2290 when his firstborn son was murdered by the "Albino," a notorious criminal who had been captured by Kor, Kang and Koloth (all of whose firstborns were killed in retaliation by the escaped Albino's genetic virus). The three Klingons — along with Curzon Dax, their Trill confidant — swore a blood oath of revenge, which forced the Albino into hiding for decades. It was not until 2370 that the fugitive was located on Secarus IV and killed by the vengeful Klingons. Kor was the only one of the long-enduring trio to survive that glorious battle. 
While serving as Klingon ambassador to Vulcan in 2372, Kor was presented with the ancient Shroud of the Sword which was found by a Vulcan geological survey. Using analysis of the shroud as a starting point, Kor set out on a quest for the legendary Sword of Kahless in the Gamma Quadrant, enlisting the help of Jadzia Dax (the successor to Curzon) and fellow Klingon Worf. They returned empty-handed. (Notation: Officially, the Sword of Kahless remains lost; however, rumors have it that the artifact was indeed found by Kor, Worf and Dax, but they abandoned it in free space, fearing that its return would only serve to divide the Klingon Empire.) 
In his waning years, Kor enjoyed his drink to excess, his favorites including Breshtanti ale and Gamzian wine. During the Dominion War, the aging war hero was unable to secure command of a ship due to the countless enemies his ambition had earned. With Worf's help, though, Kor secured a position on the Ch'Tang under the command of then-General Martok. Kor died honorably in 2375 during battle with the Jem'Hadar at Trelka Five, by taking on a suicide mission aboard the Bird-of-Prey Ning'tao that saved his comrades' lives. Many songs are sung about the Dahar Master who lived and died a great warrior. 

References: Errand of Mercy, Blood Oath, The Sword of Kahless, Once More Unto the Breach 
Played by John Colicos. He was originally supposed to have reprised his role for "The Day of the Dove" and "The Trouble With Tribbles" but was unavailable for filming when those episodes came up.
Information provided by:
The Continuum, www.startrek.com, @2002 2006 CBS Studios, Paramount Pictures
The Encyclopedia, www.simonsays.com/st, @1997 Pocket Books, Michael & Denise Okuda, Debbie Mirek
Star Trek in Sound and Vision, www.stinsv.com, @2003 Dave & Richard
