PERSONNEL: Ursula Georgia (Kassa) LaMoore, D.O.
Ensign, U.S.S. Sutherland, co-chief medical officer

A skilled and beautiful woman in command of the medical staff aboard the U.S.S. Sutherland. Born May 20, 2344 in the capital city of Ethiopia, Addis Ababa, Earth to Kassa Kurati and Kurati (Twebesta) "Toby" Shiffaraw.
Ursula's father worked for the Klingon Embassy located within that same city for many years as an assistant to the Federation representative in the office, Ambassador Ursula Manetti. While employed there he met his soon to be wife. They had children, first a boy; Joli Kassa in 2342, then Ursula; and named the second child after his good friend and boss. After the Ambassador retired the post was not refilled since relations between the Klingon Empire and the Federation were going better and the Klingon staff had developed a better understanding of Federation customs and regulations. Kassa was subsequently promoted to a diplomatic attaché to the Klingon government, performing many of the same services previously done by the more formal Ambassador. Toby, as she was affectionately called by her friends and family, was very beneficial to the prosperity and success of her husband. She did not officially take a job with the Embassy but her assistance to her husband with the preparation of state dinners, escort service of the visiting dignitaries and their escorts, and other such services earned her recognition within the office. She was often thought of as an employee and granted permission to free access of the facility.
This family work with the Klingons led to a great understanding of the alien culture within the household. Often the family ate with foreign heads of state and traveled to Klingon attended functions on other worlds. Ursula and her family became quite accustomed to traditional Klingon foods, not being much different from the native African foods of her own culture. But this constant submersion into the foreign often caused rifts between her and her peers in school, to the point that she strived hard to try to participate in functions more like what they were participating in. She became very susceptible to peer pressure. In her attempts to make sure to find favorite things among Earth customs, she learned to love Earth foods over Klingon dishes and chose a favorite of Lasagna which her namesake, the Ambassador Manetti, brought with her to social occasions. Her brother was much the opposite; taking a liking to everything foreign, to such a point that his favorite food was Romulan mussels, something he rarely had prepared for him at home.
Ursula and her brother attended an intercultural school that included children from ambassadorial families. Joli stayed at the school until he graduated, but Ursula requested that she be allowed to attend school with the neighborhood children at the local public schools. Ursula found it hard to keep up with her peers there since her social time with them was limited by her parent's schedule. She often found herself resenting Joli for his strong friendships that he was able to maintain since many of the events their parents took them on often involved the diplomatic families rather than the local ones. But she continued to choose to associate with the local groups.
In school, Joli had and accepted the numerous opportunities to participate in off-world activities sanctioned by his school. Ursula chose to participate in her school's activities too, but hers were often limited to Earth, Luna, and one trip to Mars, Jupiter, and the Galilean satellites. Ursula hadn't left the Sol System unlike her adventurous brother. When Joli graduated high school he took off for Andor to be schooled at the c'Astal University of Engineering. Ursula instead chose to go to school on Earth, at the University of Michigan in Ann Arbor, Michigan, as it was one of the world's best medical schools.
While working on her undergraduate degree Ursula met her future husband Victor LaMoore while he was on leave from Starfleet at the time. It was during her junior year and her friends and her were taking Spring Break at Nassau, Bahamas. He returned to work at Spacedock in Earth orbit and was able to spend more time in the company of his new found love. The two were married later that year. The following year she graduated with her Bachelor's degree and immediately enrolled into the graduate medical program, continuing her studies. They bought a condo close to the medical campus and decided to reside on the planet full time. After they had been married for four years, Ursula became pregnant and gave birth to twin boys, named for their father; Victor Jr., and for each of their grandfathers, Kassa Dwayne.
Ursula graduated from medical school and was accepted as an intern at the Geneva General Hospital in Switzerland. She commuted to the school for eight months, until Victor Sr. got a promotion and a transfer to Minara Gem station in orbit of Betazed. They agreed to live in the different locations until she finished her medical requirements, when she would then move with him; knowing that they would all return to Earth after his current assignment was completed. In 2373, one year after moving to Betazed, the Dominion attacked that world and destroyed the station and its residents; her family was lost.
She finished her residency shortly thereafter and was a full fledged doctor of osteopathy. She then made the unexpected decision to apply to the Starfleet Academy medical school to take post-graduate courses. After being accepted she altered her request to take courses to become an officer and the change was accepted as well. She was admitted into the medical program, but all basic requirements for her medical department were waived since she was already a certified and practicing doctor. She was given a light class load and a light patient load. As part of her acceptance to the school, she was granted numerous advance placement credits so she would not have to repeat work, nor be held back because of a light class load. Her new coursework involves a heavy focus on alien physiology, and a strong emphasis on the more remote sauroid- genus of anatomy. This rare field instantly makes her one of the experts in all of Starfleet about these kinds of aliens. 
Ursula was assigned to field experience at the end of her sophomore year at the Academy in an effort to support the allied forces during the Dominion War. She was posted to the U.S.S. Sutherland and worked on the medical staff. Aboard that ship she assisted with the numerous rescue operations and was a major contributor to the ship's "party ship of the fleet" reputation. After the starship suffered crippling damage which killed the ship's chief engineer, Ursula was promoted to that position. After reading a dispute offered by Lieutenant Malachi, reminding the Commander that Dr. LaMoore hadn't completed command training yet and therefore was not supposed to be eligible for the position, she was formally made co-chief in combination with Malachi, with her being in command of medical decisions and the officer with which will make medical decisions and recommendations for missions. All department operations, inventory, and regulatory and procedural functions will be the responsibility of the head nurse.
Her psyche test reveals that she is a very compassionate individual, and very talented in her medical knowledge. She, like many people in the medical profession, is a pacifist; refusing to carry arms. Like many medical professionals they claim it to be a violation of their religion- that of the Hippocratic Oath. Her admission was accepted through an unusual set of circumstances and may not have passed a regular entrance review board based on her perceived motives for joining the Starfleet Academy. It is felt that her choice to join the para-military organization may be the result of guilt for losing her family. Her childhood represented a very non-alien attitude, and her new one is embracing alien cultures openly. 

TIMELINE:
2344: Born on May 20, in Addis Ababa, Ethiopia, Earth
2352: Transferred to public schools.
2362: Entered the University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, Michigan, Earth.
2365: Met & married Victor LaMoore.
2366: Earned her Bachelor's degree, accepted into the UofM medical graduate school.
2368: Gave birth to twin sons, Victor Jr., and Kassa Dwayne.
2370: Began residency at Geneva General Hospital, Geneva, Switzerland, Earth.
2371: Her husband was transferred to Minara Gem station, Betazed, and took the children with him.
2373: The Dominion destroyed the station and killed her family.
2373: Assigned to the U.S.S. Sutherland, granted early graduation from the Academy and commissioned as an ensign, and assumed chief medical officer position after death of the previous officer.
2373: Returned to the Academy for graduate work and to teach courses.

FAMILY: 
Father:	Kassa Kurati			diplomatic attache for the Klingon Embassy
Mother: Twebesta Shiffaraw		unofficial aide to her husband
Brother:	Joli Kassa		2342	
Wife:	Meaza Admassu		
Nephew: Mazean Kassa		
Husband: Victor LaMoore			killed by Dominion at Betazed (2373)
Child:	Kassa Dwayne LaMoore		killed by Dominion at Betazed (2373)
Child: 	Victor LaMoore Jr.		killed by Dominion at Betazed (2373)
Paternal:
Father:	Kurati Alemayehu
Mother: 	Alemayehu (Sipiwe) Elwafa
Aunt:	Tizita Kurati
Uncle:	Jorge Espinoza
Cousin: 	Marisa Kurati
Cousin: 	Pho Kurati
Aunt:	Kitawa Kurati
Aunt:	Muskatar Kurati
Maternal:
Father:	Shiffaraw Nasar
Mother: 	Nasar (Lena) Zamchiya
Uncle:	Tobin Shiffaraw
Wife:	Abiye Berkinish
Cousin:	Abeba Tobin
Uncle:	Kleary Shifaraw
Wife:	Munit Adani
Cousin:	Tusegye Kleary

COURSEWORK:


Reference: Starfleet Academy series
This character is a combination of a high school friend, Ursula Watson, and a college friend, Zeleka Kassa; with most of the more obvious traits resembling that of my most recent acquaintance. Both are strong women with the potential to become great and influential women; I am proud to have known both.
Information provided by:
Starfleet Academy, www.geocities.com/starfleet_academy_2373, @2000 Kenn Ferguson
