PERSONNEL: Christina Libby
Captain, starship commander, U.S.S. 

An organized and talented tactician recently promoted to her own starship at the end of the Dominion War. She previously served as second officer aboard the U.S.S. Sutherland but with the shortage of officers resulting from the war she was given the opportunity to skip the traditional executive position. Her records contain numerous commendations by her former captain, Julius Ramsey, stating her clear abilities to manage people and operational duties.
Christine was born January 17, 2337 to Michael and Marcia Libby on Syria Plenum, Mars. Her father was a member of the Mars Militia, a Marine group of the Starfleet assigned to the Mars Defense Perimeter. He was a career military man and ran his household in that manner. He was regularly assigned to work on one of the defensive platforms for one month periods where he would be away from his family during that time. He would be transferred back to Mars for three months, before being sent out again. This back and forth pattern existed for most of Christine's adolescence. In the meantime her mother was an operations officer for the Mars Life Support Services, spending most of her service running the planetary water reclamation plants. Her primary duty was to perform regular water sampling and testing, and to be available at times when the system needed repairs and diagnostic work.
Many people would characterize Christine as the typical "Army brat." Despite the fact that she never had to relocate like most families of military personnel, she did have to go through the same transient adjustments when her friends associates did move. Life on a military base was very dynamic, offering new personnel regularly. But, like all "brats," she used the clout associated with her father's position to earn good graces with station security and had access to most of the facilities, unrestricted. This was an asset that assisted her in making new friends since she would be able to find things to do on the base that were allowed, rather than causing mischief like other children that did not have good direction.
Her military attitude prevailed and enticed her to join the Starfleet Academy in 2355. She focused on operational and tactical studies and made a clear goal of making Admiral for Starfleet Tactical Operations some day. With that purpose in mind she was granted a field experience and two independent study courses within the Operations' offices. Upon graduation she was commissioned as an ensign and assigned to that same set of offices as a data clerk. Her job included analyzing data from non-Federation sources and inputting it into the LCARS network as classified material, until her supervisors could determine its eventual security level. 
Christine was promoted to full lieutenant and assigned to the U.S.S. ?????, a Trident-class vessel transporting personnel between "duck blind" posts throughout the Federation. She was made the chief operations officer of the small vessel and often had to work within the observation posts for periods of time when unplanned crew movement was needed. While aboard the outposts she was usually the only commissioned officer, or the highest ranking officer and therefore assigned the default duty of command.
Upon the beginning of the Cardassian-Dominion conflict she was transferred to the U.S.S. Sutherland as an operations/ communications officer with a specific duty of assisting with the collection of data about the allied powers. Her position there allowed her to obtain transmissions that allowed Starfleet Intelligence to predict the joining of the two governments and the news of the non-aggression pacts signed by neighboring systems. Captain Ramsey, pleased with her skills, quickly granted her with the position of 2nd officer, bypassing the higher ranking chief engineer, which the Grazerite took no offense to.
Toward the end of the Dominion War the Sutherland sustained crippling damage and heavy casualties, including the captain. She insisted that her reconnaissance work was still important to Starfleet and by-passed the offer to make her the executive officer so that she could remain focused on her other duties. She then recommended her primary relief officer, a recently commissioned ensign, to the job. When she and the Sutherland returned to Earth, she was given the position as starship commander of the U.S.S. , another scout vessel to perform more observation of neighboring systems.

TIMELINE:
2337: Born January 17, Syria Plenum, Mars
2355: Entered Starfleet Academy
2359: Graduated from the Academy, commissioned as an ensign, and assigned to Starfleet Operations.
2373: Promoted to Captain and issued command of the U.S.S. , scout vessel.

FAMILY:
CLASSIFIED

COURSEWORK:
CLASSIFIED

Reference: Fall Semester
Information provided by:
Starfleet Academy, www.geocities.com/starfleet_academy_2373, @2000 Kenn Ferguson
