PERSONNEL: Matthew Morden
Lieutenant (jg), operations officer, U.S.S. Sutherland

A handsome young officer from Ann Arbor, Michigan, Earth. Born February 19, 2351 to Scott Jacob Morden and Christina Louise (Abbott). Both of his parents serve as Starfleet officers stationed on Earth or within Earth orbit which has afforded Matt many of the luxuries of new technology. Matthew went to public schools in Washtenaw County where he met Ed Wasser in elementary and became best friends. Matt entered Starfleet Academy in2369 with a direction of becoming a starship commander.
Matt came from a family of five, of which he was the oldest of the three children. The next child in line was born two years later, Jennifer Ann, 2353; followed the next year by Adam Jacob, 2354.
Matt lived with his family in Ann Arbor for his entire life. His father worked at the Starfleet Engineering facility in Detroit, Michigan as a Commander of transporter engineering until his paralyzing accident in 2363. His mother served as a Lieutenant and Chief of Operations at Earth Station McKinley and then was transferred to the Detroit facility in 2364 to continue her operations management.
Matt attended Huron Valley High School where he took college preparatory courses in planning for his attendance to the Starfleet Academy. He was accepted to the school right after high school where he focus on Command structure training.
Matt was granted early graduation, along with most Cadets, to support the war effort during the Dominion attacks. He was posted to the U.S.S. Sutherland as a bridge officer, offering relief and late hour work at the Helm and Operations. While the Sutherland was engaging the Dominion just inside the front lines the starship was struck and damaged. The warp nacelles were ripped from the ship, taking warp power off-line, and leaving many key systems without power and power explosions destroying many other systems. Many of the ship's personnel were killed in the attack, including Captain Ramsey.
On the slow return to Earth, the damaged ship was intercepted numerous times by wings of Dominion fighters. Acting Captain Chris Hobson gave Matt a field promotion to Lieutenant (jg) and posted him as first officer, bypassing Chief of Operations, Commander Christine Libby and other senior officers. Libby, nor the other officers took any hardship from the breech of seniority since they were needed at their specialty stations and the officers worked well with Matt during the crisis.
Upon the return of the starship to spacedock Matt was granted leave time which he and some other officers from the ship used to return to the Academy to further their education and to teach courses to new Cadets. Matt has been activated several times from his leave to serve aboard the Sutherland during its training cruises. 

TIMELINE:
2351	Born February 19 in Ann Arbor, Michigan, Earth
2353	Sister, Jennifer Ann, born
2354	Brother, Adam Jacob, born
2363	Father paralyzed in accident
2363	Mother transferred to Detroit facility
2369	Graduated from Huron Valley High School
2369	Entered Starfleet Academy
2372	Graduated Starfleet Academy early
2372	Promoted to Ensign
2372	Assigned to USS Sutherland
2373	Field promotion to Lieutenant (jg)
2373	Assigned as Executive Officer
2373	Began teaching at Starfleet Academy

FAMILY:
Father 	Scott Jacob Morden	2329	Transporter Engineer, Commander, Ford Plant, Dearborn MI Earth
Mother 	Christina Louse (Abbott)	2325	Chief of Operations, Lieutenant, Ford Plant, Dearborn MI Earth
Sibling 	Jennifer Ann		2353	student, sophomore, UofM, Ann Arbor MI, Earth
Sibling 	Adam Jacob		2354	student, freshman, Heidelburg University, Germany, Earth

COURSEWORK:
Summer semester, 2370: freshman year
Orientation
Fall semester, 2370: freshman year
History
Protocol
Prime Directive
Warp Theory
Basic 1st Aid
Sickbay
Winter semester, 2371: freshman year
SEWG
Introduction to Communications
Helm & Navigation
LCARS
Self Defense
Tricorder Operations
Spring semester, 2371: freshman year
Broadcasting
Transporter Operations
Life Support
Astronomy I
Evacuation Procedures
Summer semester, 2371: freshman year
Field Experience
Fall semester, 2371: sophomore year
Intercultural Species
Life Support
Targeting
MASH
Federation Government
First Contact
Winter semester, 2372: sophomore year
Away Teams
System Diagnostics
Cultural Diversity
Evasive Flight
Air Traffic Control
Sociology
Spring semester, 2372: sophomore year
Economics
Vulcan Culture
Evacuation Procedures
Klingon Culture
Commercial Flight
Deflector Control
Summer semester, 2372: sophomore year
Space Walking
Fall semester, 2372: junior year
Temporal Mechanics
Social Welfare
Operational Control
Staff Management
Romulan Culture
Bartering & Negotiation
Winter semester, 2373: junior year
Parliamentary Procedures
Alien Politics
Broadcasting
Transporter Operations
Alien Systems
Astronomy II
Spring semester, 2373: junior year
Deflector Control
Interpersonal Communication
Andorian Culture
Criminal Law
Starship Engineering
Communication ????
Summer semester, 2373: junior year
Field experience (mandatory for war effort)
Early Graduation
Fall Semester, 2373: graduate courses
Morals & Ethics
Tactical Analysis
Subspace Communication
Laws & Statutes
Contemporary Issues
TAUGHT- Prime Directive
Winter Semester, 2374, graduate courses
Weapons Systems
Criminology
Espionage
Ferengi Culture
Computer Cores
TAUGHT- Prime Directive

Reference: Starfleet Academy series
This character was inspired by the villain in the sci-fi series Babylon 5, Mr. Morden who worked for the Shadows. This character is clearly not the duplicious man, or any relation to, the agent of evil on TV.
Information provided by:
Starfleet Academy, www.geocities.com/starfleet_academy_2373, 2000 Kenn Ferguson
