PERSONNEL: Alexander Rozhenko
Warrior, I.K.C. Ya'Vang

BORN: 2366
ORIGIN: 1/4 Human, 3/4 Klingon

Son of Starfleet officer Worf Son of Mogh and Federation Ambassador K'Ehleyr. Alexander was born on the 43rd day of Maktag, and spent his infancy in the care of his mother. Worf learned of Alexander's existence shortly before K'Ehleyr's death in 2367, but was reluctant to acknowledge that Alexander was his son, for fear that Alexander would bear the disgrace of Worf's discommendation. Worf did accept his son, who returned to Earth to be raised by Worf's adoptive parents, Sergey and Helene Rozhenko. Alexander was four years old at the time. The time-difference of three years was caused due to the many sub light travels he made accompanying his mother on her assignments. Alexander remained on Earth for about a year, but the Rozhenkos became concerned that the child needed his father, and returned Alexander to Worf's custody aboard the Enterprise-D. Alexander was fond of heroic tales of the ancient Earth's American West, and once persuaded his father and Counselor Deanna Troi to join him in a simulation designed for him by Reginald Barclay, called the Ancient West. In 2370, when Alexander was seven years old and about to make his choice of whether or not to undergo the first Rite of Ascension, he was visited by a mysterious stranger named K'mtar, who helped young Alexander to better understand the Klingon Way. K'mtar was, in reality, Alexander's future self, although Alexander did not know this. Alexander was happily living on Earth with his grandparents in 2372.
As he grew older, Alexander resented the fact that Worf left him in the care of his adoptive grandparents. His disenchantment led him to enlist in the Klingon Defense Force, where he was assigned to the I.K.S. Rotarran. He served together with Worf aboard the Rotarran, but tensions with his father led to his eventual transfer to the I.K.S. Ya'Vang. 
In 2374, Alexander agreed to take part in the wedding ceremony of his father and Jadzia Dax. 

FAMILY: 
Father: Worf Son of Mogh
Mother: Ambassador K'Ehleyr (deceased)
Adoptive Grandfather: Sergey Rozhenko
Adoptive Grandmother: Helene Rozhenko

 Born in 2366, Alexander is the son of Worf and the late Federation Ambassador K'Ehleyr. Although Alexander spent his infancy with his mother, following her death he returned to Earth to live with Worf's adoptive parents, Sergey and Helena Rozhenko. Worf was initially reluctant to recognize Alexander as his son, fearing his discommendation would bring him shame. 

Reference: Reunion, New Ground, A Fistful of Datas, Firstborn, The Way of the Warrior, Sons & Daughters, You Are Cordially Invited...
Portrayed by Brian Bonsall (TNG), Jon Steuer (Reunion), James Sloyan (future), Marc Worden (DS9)
Information provided by:
The Continuum, www.startrek.com, @2002 Paramount Pictures
The Encyclopedia, www.simonsays.com/st, @1997 Pocket Books, Michael & Denise Okuda, Debbie Mirek
Star Trek in Sound & Vision, www.stinsv.com, @2003 Dave & Richard

