PERSONNEL: Noonien Soong
Ph.D, robotics scientist, Omicron Theta

As one of Earth's leading robotics scientists, Dr. Noonien Soong studied with Dr. Ira Graves but slipped into obscurity in the early 24th century after failing to create an Asimov-like positronic brain. Only later was it discovered that this man of mystery had left an incredible legacy by doing so, working under an assumed name on a private science colony in the Omicron Theta system. Having created three models before building the imperfect Lore with emotions, Soong disassembled him and programmed Data without them in 2338. He was thought killed in the Crystalline Entity's attack on the colony when the massacre was uncovered in 2364, but three years later a personal summons to Data revealed he'd escaped the massacre to a secret, solitary jungle lab on Terlina III to continue his research and perfect an emotions chip. Not knowing that Lore had been reassembled in 2364 by Data's U.S.S. Enterprise crewmates, the elderly Soong unwittingly called him as well and mistakenly gave him Data's chip, dying by Lore's hand during one of the dark android's rages. 
Only after Soong's death was it known that he had married Julianna O'Donnell on Mavala IV in 2328 and she had helped build all the androids, then escaped with him to the second lab. There she died in an accident and was herself rebuilt in an android body with transferred memories - a job so perfect even she did not even realize it and later left her husband to remarry, breaking his heart. Soong left a message for Data in his new emotions chip, detailing the story of Julianna, as well as an advanced 'dream' program; he had kept up with Data's career and legal debates but didn't know he'd been found by a Starfleet crew - he'd wanted him to be a cyberneticist or other scientist. Soong likened his creations to an artist's need for expression - and a natural desire to procreate as a way to immortality. 

Reference: Datalore, Brothers , Inheritance, Birthright, Generations
Portrayed by Bent SPiner, whom also played Data and Lore- Soong's creations in his image.
Information provided by:
The Continuum, www.startrek.com, @2002 2006 CBS Studios, Paramount Pictures
The Encyclopedia, www.simonsays.com/st, @1997 Pocket Books, Michael & Denise Okuda, Debbie Mirek
Star Trek in Sound & Vision, www.stinsv.com, @2003 Dave & Richard
