PERSONNEL: Kasidy Danielle Yates
Captain, freighter commander, S.S. Xhosa

BIOGRAPHICAL DETAILS: Civilian freighter captain who operated in the Bajor sector. Yates met Benjamin Sisko (see file) through his son, Jake, in 2371. By early 2372, Kasidy Yates and Benjamin Sisko grew increasingly fond of each other, but often had difficulty finding time together owing to their busy schedules. Yates' freighter, the Xhosa, was intercepted by the Klingon bird-of-prey M'Char in 2372 during the Klingon offensive on Cardassia. The Xhosa was freed thanks to intervention by Sisko in command of the Defiant. Shortly thereafter, Yates accepted a position as a freighter captain with the Bajoran Ministry of Commerce. She was allowed to use her own ship, pick her own crew, and operate wholly within the Bajoran sector. In accepting the job, she intended to take up residence on station Deep Space Nine. Yates and Sisko shared a love of baseball and enjoyed each other's company. Kasidy Yates's youngest brother was a colonist on Cestus III, and played for the Pike City Pioneers. Yates was arrested by Starfleet in 2372 for smuggling weapons to the Maquis. Yates was convicted and sentenced to six months in a Federation prison. After serving her sentence, she returned to DS9 and took up residence there.
Brother, colonist, Cestus III Beautiful freighter captain who met future husband Benjamin Sisko in 2371 during a stopover at Deep Space 9. Yates and Sisko's relationship weathered Yates' six months in prison and the Dominion-Federation war. In 2375, Yates became pregnant and, despite warnings from the Prophets, married Sisko. Shortly thereafter Yates was essentially widowed as her husband joined the Prophets in another reality for an indeterminate amount of time. 

Reference: Family Business 
Played by Penny Johnson, who also played Dobara in "Homeward," and Cassie in "Far Beyond the Stars."
Information provided by:
The Continuum, www.startrek.com, @2002 2006 CBS Studios, Paramount Pictures
The Encyclopedia, www.simonsays.com/st, @1997 Pocket Books, Michael & Denise Okuda, Debbie Mirek
LCARS Communications Network, www.lcarscom.net, @2002 Sean Stevenson
