CLASS: Arboc
TYPE: ore extractors

A small craft, about the size of a work bee. Designed much like a helicopter with a cockpit very similar. These units were mostly found in asteroid fields where excavation of raw materials took place. One the Rebellion gained power these machines could be found attacking and dissecting Lysian vessels with their laser cutters.
The pilot section is contained behind a large clear dome in the very front of the craft, with the dome extending to the feet for viewing of large amounts of area. The sides of the dome were flat, and metal joints connected the front viewing area to the sides. The side areas extended down to just below the arm rests of the pilot where the mechanical arms were contained. The pilots chair included seat belts to restrain the pilot during zero gravity space flight.
The arms were jointed so that they could fold up and be placed out of harms way during maneuvering and when not in use. Otherwise they swung out and downward to a position in front of the craft. The arms are equipped with minor lasers, capable of drilling, melting, soldering, and other uses typical to miners. They are also equipped with suction units for collecting the ore ad transferring it to the cargo area.
Behind the pilot is the operations deck with a subfloor under it. The ops deck is a half flight up from the main cockpit, so the pilot must climb up and down to get in and out of the cockpit. In the ops deck the controller maintains vehicle operations; life support, power, and observes ore transit through the vacuum tubes. The controller also sits in a chair with seat belts to restrain him during zero gravity. Within the subfloor are contained the equipment necessary for life support, command operations, etc. The vessel’s backup batteries are also stored there. The ops decks contains the mooring point for transfer of crew.
Aside of the ops deck are two short wings that extend in square shapes and act as gangways onto other vessels. Under that are connected the retractable landing gear for planetary re-entry and suspension struts to prevent the craft from impacting the target object. At the edges of the wings are the craft’s grappling systems; winches, launchers, etc., for attaching to desired objects. Under the wings and close to the main body are the fuel tanks for the fusion reactor.
Aft of the ops deck is a small fuselage tat extends some ten meters back. Within it are contained the vacuum tubes that have connection points at various places along the fuselage for depositing ores into the cargo tanks, energy transfer lines, and the fusion reactor. Along the outside of the fuselage are two long Ion fusion engines at 45? from the flight plane, and several small wings, three rows, at 90? angles to each other leaving the bottom open to attach to cargo pods. Along the bottom are numerous latches which can secure cargo pods to the ore extractor. 
As ore is sucked up into the extendible arms, it is carried up past the ops controller and through the fuselage in the rear of the craft where it is blown into the attached cargo tanks. The tanks are modular and can be of different sizes, shapes, and composition depending upon the type of ore being extracted.

Reference: Q Neighbor
Information provided by:
Starfleet Academy, www.geocities.com/starfleet_academy_2373, @2000 Kenn Ferguson

