CLASS: Asey
TYPE: carrier

One of the most offensive ships built by the Satarran Rebellion. These vessels were a front line ship designed to transport interceptors, scouts, small transports, cargo, personnel, and other military tools into front line duty.
These craft were wide bodied, double hulled craft capable of carrying up to one hundred interceptors into battle. Measuring over 700 meters long, 400 meters wide at the wing point, 60 meters wide for the most of the craft, and 50 meters tall. These craft were egg shaped in that they were smaller in the front, grew as an observer looked aft, then became smaller again in the tail section.
The front sections of the craft were mostly cargo holds for items used by ship’s personnel and passengers. They also included some of the ship’s recreational facilities and services for passenger. Many laser emitters were installed at several points along the front, and a few laser cannons on turrets were also embedded within the hull, both ventral and dorsal. Four torpedo launchers were also installed, about ten meters off center, one dorsal port, dorsal starboard, ventral port, ventral starboard. Going aft some, the number of decks increased to add in passenger quarters, pilot quarters, and additional ship’s services. Ship’s services include mess hall, sickbay, and other such rooms. 
In the middle of the ship along the dorsal shell was the bridge. Assembled in a bubble shaped mound it was able to see all around the top level of the craft. At the sides of the craft were wings on each side. Not designed for flight, but for convenience; these wings attached to the warp nacelles to suspend them far enough away from the ship in order to create a large enough warp field to engulf the entire ship. Just inside of the warp engines were runways on each side of the craft to allow interceptors to take off and land on and from the carrier. Inside of that were torpedo launchers that faced forward and rear, and magazines that ran the length of the wing segments. The lowest decks were often created as large cargo holds for the transfer and storage of large amounts of goods.
The runways existed on deck 11 and connected to the interior of the ship via two large hangar doors on each side of the craft. The doors could be closed to protect the fighters inside, but did little to assist with atmosphere control. The hangar bays ran the full length of the craft, from stem to stern, holding aircraft in stalls and repair facilities throughout the deck. Over 200 docking collars on extendable chutes were installed in the floor and ceiling of that deck to allow transfer of crew, cargo, and other items from docked ships. The decks above and below the flight deck were usually taken up by staterooms reserved for pilots, briefing rooms, and other military uses directly involving pilots.
The rear of the craft was taken up by the ship’s engineering.  Fuel tanks, fusion reactors, batteries, and fifteen Ion radiant thrusters. The thrusters were built on the ventral side of the hull, at the very end of the main section of craft. Behind that, and above the thrusters was an additional rear facing wing, three decks tall, containing more torpedo launchers, weapons magazines, and laser emitters and turrets, all mounted on the top of the wing. Besides being a weapons armament, the wing prevented fighters from flying too close to the craft’s thrusters.

Reference: Q Neighbor
These ships were modeled after the Republic Cruiser seen in Star Wars: Return of the Jedi, and are a variation of the Embea class in Star Wars lore.
Information provided by:
Starfleet Academy, www.geocities.com/starfleet_academy_2373, @2000 Kenn Ferguson

