FLEET: Bajoran vessels

A pre-warp civilization that has been the center of conflict by the Cardassian Union and the United Federation of Planets. Even though the Bajorans were first in interstellar flight of the three powers, the Cardassians were the first to develop warp technology and heavy weapons with which they used to attack and occupy Bajoran settlements. And while Federation directives prohibit influencing pre-warp civilizations, it has been determined that the threat of contamination to their culture by UFP involvement is negligible considering the aftermath of the Cardassian occupation.
Since they are pre-warp, their space fleet is comprised of all impulse driven craft; transports, fighters, and interceptors. They do not have any capital ships; no cruisers, destroyers, carriers, or other such vessels. They are capable of speeds up to 9,360 kilometers per hour; just under Federation standard orbit speed of 9,600 kph. All of their craft designs feature wings and landing struts for atmospheric use in addition to space travel.
During the occupation the Bajoran fleet of ships was nearly wiped out. Vessels hidden in underground caves and fortresses on Bajor and the other settlements were the lucky ones, and are slowly being discovered by relief teams visiting war-ravaged settlements.
As a rule Bajoran craft are not maneuverable or self-defended enough to get in and out of Cardassian space undetected. But each is equipped with polaron beam weapons and usually some other kind of weapon too, although it changes from craft to craft.
With recent decisions to add the Bajoran population as members of the Federation, and since the population is already familiar with the workings of matter-antimatter systems, it is very likely that technology information will be granted to the Bajroans so that they may begin developing warp capable craft of their own.

Classifications of ships built by the Bajorans include: 
Lanas-class interceptors, also known as the Bajoran assault vessel
Toros-class fighters, also known as the Bajoran strike fighter
Vataloo-class fighters
Aree-class interceptor
Enjay-class fighters
Hexpy-class fighters
-class transport
-class transport
-class transport
-class scout

Reference: The Homecoming 
Information provided by:
The Continuum, www.startrek.com, @2002 Paramount Pictures
The Encyclopedia, www.simonsays.com/st, @1997 Pocket Books, Michael & Denise Okuda, Debbie Mirek
Deep Space Nine Technical Manual, www.simonsays.com/st, @1998 Pocket Books, Michael Okuda, Rick Sternbach, Doug Drexler
Starfleet Academy, www.geocities.com/starfleet_academy_2373, @2000 Kenn Ferguson



