CLASS: Centulian
TYPE: light cruiser

Originally developed as a transport, it was converted into a cruiser by the Rebellion. A starship that could patrol and transport cargo, personnel, and supplies across Satarran territory. About 50 meters long and 7 meters wide, these were the 2nd largest vessel created by the Satarrans before the Rebellion. Once the rebellion began, these ships were produced in mass quantity to act as convoy leaders and command ships.
These craft were the first to feature a double hull along the main fuselage to protect the craft from enemy harpoons and other docking mechanisms. When a harpoon or similar weapon was used, it could puncture the outer hull, and not come into contact with the interior hull; protecting the crew and passengers aboard. The two hulls were far enough apart that crewmen could work their way between the hulls to access the grapplers and dislodge them to facilitate their emergency release.
The main fuselage was five meters wide and had a blunt front end At the front, atop of the round fuselage, a bridge section was added that was square and narrower than the round section below. The bridge was two meters tall and wide, and ran about six meters back where it sloped down to blend with the round craft. In the bridge were all command functions and crew seating. In this sloped section were stairs leading to the lowers decks, and the life support systems.
Below the bridge was the forward cargo hold and a mooring point. This section was later replaced with laser emitters, a torpedo launcher and magazine when the rebellion took hold. Aft of that were the beginning of the crew quarters, running along one side of the craft with the hallway along the other. The Aft of the quarters were several large recreation rooms that included the mess hall, sickbay, gymnasium, and theater. At the rear of all that were two mooring points, one on each side. 
Aft of the crew sections were the ship’s batteries, fuel tanks, and fusion reactors. Atop of that was an extensive array of sensors, communications antennas, and subspace relays. Later, added to this section were a couple laser emitters. The ship’s three Ion radiant thrusters were the last section of the ship. One was centered on the main fuselage. The other two were side by side of the main, creating a row of three. The side thrusters were supported to the craft by two small diagonal wings that attached to the main fuselage at the junction of the engine section. Retractable landing gear was attached at this point to the craft.
At the side of the crew section were the two warp nacelles, one on each side. Enclosed on top and bottom by full length supports, the warp drive units were held securely in place. Within the top and bottom supports were several access hatches to which cargo could be loaded and unloaded from the craft. The foremost sections of these cargo bays contained retractable landing gear that supported the front of the ship.

Reference: Q Neighbor
These ships were modeled after the Republic Cruiser seen in Star Wars: Phantom Menace.
Information provided by:
Starfleet Academy, www.geocities.com/starfleet_academy_2373, @2000 Kenn Ferguson

