SHUTTLECRAFT: Columbia
TYPE: OR-1 Space shuttle
REGISTRY: OV-102

Space Shuttle Columbia became the first Terran reusable spaceship. Its second trip to low Earth orbit and back again began on November 12, 1981, following its maiden voyage by only seven months. The ship is 56 meters long with a 24 meter wingspan, launched mated to an external fuel tank and two solid rocket boosters producing dramatic exhaust plumes. The solid rocket boosters, one on each side of the external tank, provide most of the thrust in the first 2 minutes after launch and are then jettisoned for later recovery. Supplying the main shuttle engines during liftoff, the external fuel tank separates after about 8 minutes. The largest shuttle element not recycled for a future flight, the external tank falls back toward Earth breaking up and descending into a remote ocean area. Still the oldest operating shuttle, Columbia is pictured here in June of 1992 rocketing toward a cloud bank on its twelfth flight. Officially designated OV-102. 
The final mission, STS-107, was crewed by:
Rick Douglas Husband, (Colonel, USAF), Commander, Born: July 12, 1957, Home: Amarillo, Texas, Survivors: Wife, two children 
Michael P. Anderson, (Lt. Colonel, USAF), Payload Specialist, Born: December 25, 1959, Home: Spokane, Washington, Survivors: Wife 
David M. Brown, (Captain, USN), Mission Specialist, Born: April 16, 1956, Home: Arlington, Virginia, Single 
Ilan Ramon, (Colonel, Israel Air Force), Payload Specialist, Born: June 20, 1954
Home: Tel Aviv, Israel, Survivors: Wife, four children

William C. McCool, (Commander, USN), Pilot, Born: September 23, 1961, Home: Lubbock, Texas, Survivors: Wife, three children 
Kalpana Chawla, (Ph.D.), Mission Specialist, Age: 41, Home: Born in Karnal, India, Survivors: Husband 
Laurel Blair Salton Clark, M.D., (Commander, USN), Mission Specialist, Age: 41
Home: Racine, Wisconsin, Survivors: Husband, one child 


"My fellow Americans, this day has brought terrible news and great sadness to our country. At 9:00 a.m. this morning, Mission Control in Houston lost contact with our Space Shuttle Columbia. A short time later, debris was seen falling from the skies above Texas. The Columbia is lost; there are no survivors. 
"On board was a crew of seven: Colonel Rick Husband; Lt. Colonel Michael Anderson; Commander Laurel Clark; Captain David Brown; Commander William McCool; Dr. Kalpana Chawla; and Ilan Ramon, a Colonel in the Israeli Air Force. These men and women assumed great risk in the service to all humanity. 
"In an age when spaceflight has come to seem almost routine, it is easy to overlook the dangers of travel by rocket, and the difficulties of navigating the fierce outer atmosphere of the Earth. These astronauts knew the dangers, and they faced them willingly, knowing they had a high and noble purpose in life. Because of their courage and daring and idealism, we will miss them all the more. 
"All Americans today are thinking, as well, of the families of these men and women who have been given this sudden shock and grief. You're not alone. Our entire nation grieves with you. And those you loved will always have the respect and gratitude of this country. 
"The cause in which they died will continue. Mankind is led into the darkness beyond our world by the inspiration of discovery and the longing to understand. Our journey into space will go on. 
"In the skies today we saw destruction and tragedy. Yet farther than we can see there is comfort and hope. In the words of the prophet Isaiah, 'Lift your eyes and look to the heavens. Who created all these? He who brings out the starry hosts one by one and calls them each by name. Because of His great power and mighty strength, not one of them is missing.' 
"The same Creator who names the stars also knows the names of the seven souls we mourn today. The crew of the shuttle Columbia did not return safely to Earth; yet we can pray that all are safely home. 
"May God bless the grieving families, and may God continue to bless America." 
— President George W. Bush, February 1, 2003 

Columbia is fittingly named after the 18th century sailing vessel which became the first American ship to circumnavigate planet Earth. 

Information provided by:
The Continuum, www.startrek.com, @2006 CBS Studios
NASA


