CLASS: Cube
TYPE: heavy cruiser

Huge cube-shaped spacecraft operated by the Borg Collective. The first known Federation encounter with a Borg whip was by the Enteprise-D near System J25 in 2365. The Borg vessel had a highly decentralized design, and the Enterprise-D personnel reported finding no specific bridge, engineering, or living areas. Combat experience showed the ship to be equipped with powerful energy weapons and capable of repairing major damage almost immediately, including the impact of direct phaser hits. It was equipped with tractor beams, a cutting beam, and torpedo charges that interfered with warp geometry- preventing escape. They are also equipped with directed energy weapons, transporters and boarding parties, and explosive torpedoes.
A Borg cube ship made its way into Federation space in 2373 and proceeded to Earth on stardate 50893. It was destroyed by a Starfleet armada but was able to launch a small Borg sphere that traveled into Earth's past on a mission to prevent Zefram Cochrane's first warp flight in 2063.
A Borg vessel of a totally different design was used in the Borg incusion of 2369, in which a transwarp conduit was used to reach the Alpha Quadrant much more rapidly than was possible with normal warp travel. This ship was destroyed by a solar fusion eruption caused by Enterprise-D.
After losing to the Federation is several battles the Borg developed a Tactical variety of its Cube-class- with smooth outer hulls acting as armor; versus the random appearing external plumbing image of the traditional cube.
Borg technology created holding beams for these craft that allowed it to be one of the best suited ships to assimilate other craft as it would be able to hold the ship in place, through the target vessels shielding. This beam also allowed the Borg access to tactical systems on the target vessel and the Cube's design made it easy to adapt and add-on target vessel technology to its own hull. After numerous encounters with the Federation, and after loosing to overwhelming numbers of starships, the Borg have created a merging process where eight cubes can be attached to each other to make one super large cube, also known as a fusion cube. This fused cube was now able to merge the shield emitters from many ships into one overlapping and superpowerful shield. This configuration also allows the vessel to use the various energy emitters to target multiple ships in multiple directions unlike a single vessel would normally be able to do.
This Borg vessel had a complement of 64,000 drones, three of which occupied the dreamstate realm of Unimatrix Zero because of a recessive gene in their DNA makeup. 
Those three were separated from the Hive mind in early 2377, thanks to a virus introduced into the Collective by the U.S.S. Voyager. Cube 630 was patrolling Spatial Grid 94, when the Borg Queen noticed that their "voices" had become silent, so she caused the vessel to self-destruct in order to make a point to Captain Janeway. 
A class-4 tactical cube, a heavily armed vessel with its Central Plexus protected by multi-regenerative security grids. Tactical Cube 138 was infiltrated by U.S.S. Voyager crew members who attempted to introduce a virus into the Collective through its Central Plexus, in a plan to help the occupants of Unimatrix Zero reassert their individuality in the physical world. Once the Borg Queen understood the nature of that plan, she initiated a self-destruct sequence for the cube, in hopes of stopping the virus and destroying Voyager. The cube blew up with a massive shock wave, but Voyager and its crew escaped harm, and a resistance movement bent on undermining the Collective was set into motion. 

Reference: Q Who?, The Best of Both Worlds, Emissary, Descent, First Contact, Scorpion, Raven, Dark Frontiers, Unimatrix Zero, End Game, Armada
Model concept by Maurice Hurley, design by Rick Sternbach, built by Kim Bailey. The type-2 Borg ship was designed by Dan Curry and built by Greg Jein.
Information provided by:
The Continuum, www.startrek.com, @2002 2006 CBS Studios, Paramount Pictures
The Encyclopedia, www.simonsays.com/st, @1997 Pocket Books, Michael & Denise Okuda, Debbie Mirek
Armada, www.activision.com, @2002 Activision
LCARS Communications Network, www.lcarscom.net, @2002 Sean Stevenson
