CLASS: Frecor
TYPE: interceptor

This is the oldest of the current Grazerite fleet of starships and one of the first designs adapted for stellar flight. The craft began as an atmospheric patrol craft by municipal authorities before the planet unified its government. After the unification it was the mainstay of planetary defense when the Vulcans made first contact with the race. The ship has been updated regularly over the years to include state of teh art Federation technology.
A ten-crew craft taking up two decks and heavily armed. It features forward armaments including warp-fed pulse phaser emitters and quantum/photon torpedo launchers. This is all built onto a tear shaped wing that divides the first and second deck. The wing is thicker in the middle, near the command areas. The upper section slopes down to a thinner area near the tip. At this point the ship is connected to the forward facing crescent wings. These wings are equipped with anti-gravity emitters and tractor beam projectors that help it slow down and hover. These machines also allow the craft to control its own entry into a hangar instead of relying on starship units for that purpose. These are now hinged at the rear connection point to allow them to be closed by the tips, taking them under the craft and making it narrow enough to be stored  in small hangars.
The pulse phaser emitter coils run latterally along the ship's main wing, and adjacent to the main command section. They are connected directly to the foward section of the warp nacelles, taking power directly from the step one plasma created within the warp toroids. This allows for high energy, rapid recharge energy; but limits the craft to phaser use only while in sublight speeds. 
Between the phasers and nacelles is the main command section. Forward deck one is the bridge that is arranged in a apttern similar to a runabout; with all controls close together making it easy for a minimal crew to perform all functions. Directly aft is the ship's transporters and large crew bunkhouse, of which includes the galley, shower, and sanitary facilities. Aft of that is the engineering section. Forward deck two are the weapons control systems, main deflector, torpedo launchers, and ship's magazines. Aft of that are the life support controls, batteries, and deck two access to engineering. The engineering section contains a lateral matter/ antimatter warp core which feeds the dual nacelles. Aft of the M/ARA are the fuel tanks for the slush deuterium and the antimatter containment pods which take up both decks one and two. Finally, the farthest aft are the impulse engines and the vectored exhaust blades.

Reference: Plague
Information provided by:
Starfleet Academy, www.geocities.com/starfleet_academy_2373, @2000 Kenn Ferguson

