CLASS: Jarul
TYPE: carrier

A large military transport used by the Grazerite military, designed to carry, deploy, and repair craft on a mobile basis. These vessels were more popular in the early days of space exploration when warp engines were a luxury that the planet could not afford to equip all of its ships with them. As time went on and the Federation assisted the builders of transports and other vessels, the military was able to divert local resources to equipping its fleet and now all Grazerite vessels are warp capable. This caused the carriers to adapt their roles in use so that they now serve as control centers during military engagements, build stations, as well as continue to offer repairs for damaged vessels; effectively serving as a mobile station.
Jarul ships are rarely seen near the homeworld since several stations already occupy space there; and most of the established colonies also have stations in orbit. But the carriers are often the first deployed after a colony completes its construction and usually arrives with the first scheduled shipment of fresh supplies. Then they will build a station in orbit that will replace the carrier when it becomes operational. 
Jarul ships are larger than the Porkay cruiser, but not by much. And in many ways the ships are very similar, large birds of prey by silhouette. Actually, a Jarul could be more mistaken as a d'Deridex class warbird from the Romulan Star Empire's fleet. It does feature a large open space between the two encompasing wing structures. It does feature the bridge section supported by a column which attaches it to the main body. But they are also different. The engineering section of this craft connects the top and bottom wings with a narrow set of decks; not the wide open cavity of the Romulan design. And the support strut is one piece, unlike the warbird.
The bridge module is a softedged teardrop, taken from teh same assembly line that produces Porkay vessels. All command stations are located in this area, along with weapons, deflectors, science labs, and other such facilities. The support column contains EPS and ODN lines and turboshaft tunnels. But it also contains a series of small hangars storing Frecor class interceptors. A fully loaded Jarul transports up to 20 interceptors in hangars all the way back to the aft impulse engines. 
The engineering section begins at the very aft sections of the craft and is hourglass shaped between the two wings. In the central core is the M/ARA that supplies power to four warp nacelles, two within the ventral and two within the dorsal wing. Attached to each nacelle are forward facing crescent wings with rudders for atmospheric flight. These smaller wings are equipped with shield emitters to protect the vessel.
Within the main section's ventral and dorsal wing is the open hangar with extendable docking ports to join with many Federation transports and shuttles. With a full compliment a Jarul was designed to ferry ten Dogay class transports, the largest Grazerite transport. The starboard and port hangars are divided by another set of forward facing crescent wings nearly in the center of the bay area that reinforce the wing shape and distance, provide additional aeronautics and shield emitters, and denote the sloping of the outer-wings to a meeting point.

Reference: Plague
Information provided by:
Starfleet Academy, www.geocities.com/starfleet_academy_2373, @2000 Kenn Ferguson

