CLASS: Krebulon
TYPE: medium cruiser

These vessel were developed after the Rebellion took form with the Satarran population. They served as the heavy cruisers in the early years of use, no changed until the large ships came into production. Secretly manufactured in the asteroid belt around Satarri, they were not mass produced to conceal their building.
These ships were designed to be much larger than previous models, an attempt to close the gap between Lysian ships, and Satarran; one hundred and fifty meters long, twenty-five meters round. It featured the new standard of a double lined hull. It carried very few passengers, if any; and was mostly a military vessel.
The ship was kind of a barbell shape in that it had a wide fore and aft section connected by a thinner middle section. The front fifty meters was mostly round. It had a few protuberances that accommodated some decks, but mostly round. This held most of the crew cabins, facilities and other services required by the crew. All command centers, except for engineering were here. It was equipped with two side mounted torpedo launchers about half way back of the section. The front was equipped with two laser emitters. The ship did have one laser canon turret mounted on a tower at the rear of the front section. Another turret was mounted on the lower side of the ship, flush with the vessel. This section did feature some cargo holds as well.
The middle section was fifteen meters around. Within it were conduits connecting the front and rear sections, transferring power and command controls, environmental support, etc. Along the bottom of the fuselage were many mooring points for docking with other vessels. In between the connections were several cargo holds for storage and transfer of goods to connecting ships. Along the top ridge were more cargo holds with small internal, and large exterior bay doors for accessing the items. The holds on top were often used to conceal interceptors when available. The three largest dorsal holds were able to hold one interceptor each.
The rear section was oval shaped, making it slightly wider than tall. This engineering section contained the fusion reactors, ship’s batteries, fuel tanks, Ion radiant thrust engines and warp drive nacelles. The nacelles were installed at the far edges of the hull. The eleven thrusters were arranged in the center and took up most of the rear view of the ship. A weapons tower was installed on the dorsal side, just off center of the main fuselage; while two towers were on the ventral side, equal distances from the center. Each tower was equipped with a pair of laser cannons on turrets, and could deploy mines and bombs If necessary. The foremost compartment of the engineering section did feature two more torpedo launchers, one on each side that were used in extreme emergencies, especially if the main two in front went off-line for some reason. 

Reference: Q Neighbor
These ships were modeled after the Nebulon Cruiser seen in Star Wars: The Empire Strikes Bac as the medical frigate.
Information provided by:
Starfleet Academy, www.geocities.com/starfleet_academy_2373, @2000 Kenn Ferguson

