FLEET: Romulan vessels

A fleet of vessels used by the offshoot race of passionate Vulcans of the Beta Quadrant. These ships are often identifiable by the obvious painting on the hulls of their craft of birds of prey, the inspiration for the craft. First contact with the Romulans was disastrous, resulting in a war. Both the Earth and the Romulans had to resort to atomic weapons to fight with. At the time of the war the Romulans had only impulse engines, no warp drive. The Romulans lost the war and remained secluded behind a neutral zone for nearly a century. A violation to the war treaty was made when tests of their new starship caused them to cross the zone and attack the Federation outposts along the border. Their new plasma weapon made short work of the rock buried stations and the asteroids they were built into. And this attack also displayed the new cloaking technology developed by that race. It was quickly learned that their weapons systems required them to drop their cloak in order to fire, giving them a temporary but costly vulnerability. 
That cloaking technology was captured by Captain James Kirk in a mission aboard a Romulan vessel years later and proved to be compatible with Federation technology too. Over the years the Romulans have modified their cloaking technology many times to avoid being detected by alien sensors. But no cloaking ability seems to be able to evade a tachyon detection grid which has been employed to illuminate stealth craft, or to avoid antiproton beams. It is also known that different cloaking machines are needed for different vessels in order to mask the energy output readings of a ship; a limitation the U.S.S. Defiant, equipped with a cloak on loan, had to deal with.
In the 2260s the Romulans made an alliance with the neighboring Klingons where they gained valuable warp technology and ship designs while they offered their unique cloaking ability. For a period after that treaty the Romulans used Klingon ship designs and modified them with their cloaking devices. 

Classifications of ships built by the Romulans include: 
Abtru-class light cruiser
Alpha-class heavy cruiser
Atrel-class
Avecture-class
Battlebird-class
Bird of Vengeance-class
Bonavian-class heavy cruiser
Cerulean-class heavy cruiser
D7-class heavy cruiser
D'deridex-class heavy cruisers, also known as a Warbird
Griffen-class light cruiser
Pheonix-class dreadnought
Preora-class
Raptor-class medium cruiser
Scimitar-class heavy cruiser
Shadow-class medium cruiser
Shrike-class light cruiser
Tahlrax-class
Talon-class scout
Trakal-class freighter

Reference:
Information provided by:
The Continuum, www.startrek.com, @2002 2006 CBS Studios, Paramount Pictures
The Encyclopedia, www.simonsays.com/st, @1997 Pocket Books, Michael & Denise Okuda, Debbie Mirek
Deep Space Nine Technical Manual, www.simonsays.com/st, @1998 Pocket Books, Michael Okuda, Rick Sternbach, Doug Drexler
Armada, www.activision.com, @2000 2002 Activision
LCARS Communications Network, www.lcarscom.net, @2002 Sean Stevenson
Starfleet Academy, www.geocities.com/starfleet_academy_2373, @2000 Kenn Ferguson
Star Trek Australia, startrekaustralia.com, @2002 Andrew Hodges
