FLEET: Satarran vessels

A fleet of ships built by the Satarran people and used by its rebellion forces to liberate it from Lysian control and to maintain its independence from the overbearing neighbors. The Satarrans began spaceship production as regular aircraft that was launched into space. Airplanes, helicopters, and rockets became more and more powerful over the years until they could climb to altitudes high enough to break orbit. They were a species quick to explore space and devoted many resources to the exploration and building of new ships. Impulse drive was developed and they were able to reach half of the Federation's standard impulse speed when they developed warp speed. Soon large fleets of ships traveled their system and made numerous stops for mining in the local asteroid belt. The asteroid belt allowed for more raw materials which only increased the speed of production, and the determination that space was a rich set of resources for their people.
After contact with the Lysians, and their subsequent takeover, the Satarrans were only left with the opportunity to create work vessels; cargo ships, transports, ore miners and haulers, etc. They were no longer left with the opportunity to develop or outfit any ship with warp drive. The Lysians were determined to keep the valuable technology to themselves as a tool to continue dominance over their neighbors. As the Rebellion organization grew in strength they were able to commandeer warp systems which they added to their own fleet.
Neither race has developed replicators, and had not developed tractor emitters, shield generators, or gravity machines until the 24th century. Until then they all used grappling hooks, chains, winches, and harpoon launchers to attach to other vessels. It often caused casualties during police actions when the atmospheric pressure of an evading vessel was compromised by the rupturing harpoons through the ship's hull.
A small, one-passenger ship unknown to Federation records, the Satarran vessel is in sharp contrast to its rival enemy's ships, the Lysia. 
Satarran ships have a flat, arrowhead-like shape, with no apparent armament -- save for a memory-blanking scanner beam, that can penetrate Starfleet shields.
Classifications of ships built by the Satarrans include:
Arboc-class ore extractors 
Asey-class carriers
Blacoff-class scouts
Blocase-class light cruisers
Centulian-class light cruisers
Dualief-class small personnel transports
Embea-class heavy cruisers
Garofee-class transports
Gropos-class transports
Invictor-class scouts & interceptors
Krebulon-class medium cruisers
Steroff-class scouts
Trulas-class transports
Yelo-class freighters

Reference: Conundrum, Q-Neighbor
Information provided by:
Star Trek Continuum, www.startrek.com, @2002 Paramount Pictures
Star Trek Encyclopedia, www.simonsays.com/st, @1997 Pocket Books
Starfleet Academy, www.geocities.com/starfleet_academy_2373, @2000 Kenn Ferguson

