SHIPS: U.S.S. Sutherland
CLASS: Nebula
TYPE: Medium cruiser
REGISTRY: NCC-72015

"THERE WILL BE AN ANSWER, LET IT BE"
A new starship, built in the wake of the armada massacre at Wolf 459 in early 2367, that was hauled out of Spacedock before it has been completely finished in order to join the blockading fleet along the Klingon-Romulan border later that year. Data was named as its commander during the mission, but he clashed with First Officer Lieutenant Commander Christopher Hobson. Lieutenant Ang left the U.S.S. Stargazer to accept a second officer's post on the Sutherland.    
During the Dominion war the ship earned the title of "party ship of the fleet" for its unmarred record of rescue efforts along the Cardassian border. The starship did suffer crippling blows that ended its front line duty and the life of its captain. It was taken back to drydock and refitted with experimental equipment and reassigned to the Starfleet Academy as a training craft.

Chronology:
2367: Served in the blockade of the Klingon -Romulan border during the Klingon Civil War.
2367: Commissioned under Captain Julius Ramsey.
2372: Assigned to front line duty during the Dominion War. Earned "Party ship of the fleet" nickname for perfect rescue and response record.
2373: Suffered crippling damage during Jem'Hadar attack and lost its captain. Returned to Earth for refit.
2373: Fitted with experimental systems and assigned to Starfleet Academy as a training craft.

Personnel:
Starship commander: awaiting
Starship commander (previous) Captain Julia Shelby
Executive officer: Commander Christopher Hobson
Chief Operations Officer (previous): Commander Christina Libby
Chief Science Officer: Lieutenant Commander Kene Chisholm
Chief Engineering Officer: Commander Lando
Chief Helm Officer: Lieutenant Aiello
Chief Tactical Officer: Lieutenant Regina Melar
Chief Operations Officer: Lieutenant Mir Ca
Chief Medical Officer: Lieutenant Malachi, RN
Chief Medical Officer: Ensign Ursula LaMoore, MD
Junior Operations Officer: Lieutenant jg Matthew Morden
Junior Science Officer: Lieutenant jg Edward Wasser
Junior Engineering Officer: Ensign Thomas Backal
Junior Security Officer: Ensign Seko
Head Counselor: Lieutenant Gerald Thompson

Reference: Redemption, You Are Cordially Invited, Gauntlet, Starfleet Academy series
The Sutherland was a modification of the Nebula-class U.S.S. Pheonix. The upper sensor pod and supporting struts were changed for the Sutherland. The Sutherland was named for Horatio Hornblower's flagship in the classic C.S. Forester novels that served as one of Gene Roddenberry's original inspirations for Star Trek.
The idea of the party ship came from series executive staffer Ronald Moore. He and the writing staff had been talking about the idea of mentioning the ship several times but didn't get the chance until "You Are Coridally Invited." They had hoped to reuse the idea more but the opportunity never came up.
Information provided by:
The Continuum, www.startrek.com, @2002 2006 CBS Studios, Paramount Pictures
The Encyclopedia, www.simonsays.com/st, @1997 Pocket Books, Michael & Denise Okuda, Debbie Mirek
Deep Space Nine Companion, www.simonsays.com/st, @2000 Pocket Books, Michael Okuda, Rick Sternbach, Doug Drexler
Starfleet Academy, www.geocities.com/starfleet_academy_2373, @2000 Kenn Ferguson
Star Trek Novel Encyclopedia Group, www.stneg.org, @2006

