SHIPS: Vulcan transport

A dockable cargo vessel designed for ferrying large amounts of supplies and passengers. These ships are often used on regular runs to colony worlds, outposts, and starbases; sites that need regular large amounts of transferred staff and supplies.
The command section is designed of a small saucer like many Federation starships. The front section of the saucer however is cut into allowing the sides to stick out into points in the front of the craft. These points are equipped with docking ports fitted to adapt to almost any alien spacework. Between the hollowed out area is a viewing area that contains the bridge, main deflector, and other command stations. The rear of the saucer is similarly cut out as the front. The inside of the saucer legs contains docking collars that will latch onto modular cargo containers that can be docked and towed by the saucer. Under the saucer are the pylon supports holding onto one warp nacelle, port and starboard. The nacelle extends from mid point on the saucer to a point beyond the rear of the saucer and to a mid point on most cargo containers. This design is reminiscent of the Miranda class starship. Under the main saucer are two shuttle bays, ribbed out and cut into the lowest deck. These bays are forward facing so that shuttles do not fly into the docked cargo containers. Along the rear of the shuttle deck are the impulse drive engines for the saucer section, which are not used during docked flight.
All transports are equipped with shuttle craft since the vessels themselves are not capable of landing when docked. The shuttles were designed for this craft to allow for custom design of the hangar deck. They were designed before the creation of the Danube class runabout which took many design features from the shuttle. The shuttles are two story to allow for large amounts of cargo to be carried to the ship. The rear cargo section is completely square on the four sides, and thin by height by comparison. The cargo section is a large open space to facilitate a wide range of uses and cargo requirements.  The rear of the craft contains the Impulse drive emitters while the drive engines run along the top of the section. Also on top is the matter/ anti matter reaction chamber that powers the warp drive and all EPS conduits. Positioned between the motor housings are two long ribbed fuel tanks; both containing slush deuterium and anti matter pods. These motor housings and their respective fuel containers form a small point along the top of the craft. The warp nacelles are connected to the upper corner of the cargo section and swing down when in use, similar to the Intrepid class starship. This feature removes the warp nacelles from the lower side of the craft when landing, and returns them to optimum position while in use. The forward section contains the bridge ad all crew needs and functions. The section is narrower than the cargo section, the same width as the fuel pods. It is also two stories at the base of the module. But the command section narrows and slopes, coming to a blunt point. At the nose is the deflector dish. The lower level of the front section contains crew quarters and recreation. The upper deck maintains the shuttle bridge.
The cargo containers range in use and internal design based on the specific function required of them. Some are equipped to carry personnel only and are designed much like a pleasure craft would be. Some are hollow to allow for maximum volume for large supplies. A few contain ore processors and storage pods for transport to and from mining colonies. And some have internal decks with storage bays in them for commercial style transport. 
All containers are designed to be docked with Vulcan transports. They have docking ports that can interconnect with the saucer to allow access of the rear section to ensure stable packing. They are all equipped with impulse drive engines that propel both the saucer and cargo section when docked.

Reference: pon-farr
Information provided by:
Starfleet Academy, www.geocities.com/starfleet_academy_2373, @2000 Kenn Ferguson
