FLEET: Vulcan vessels

Vulcans are probably the most advanced engineers of warp theory of all Federation members. Their warp nacelles create such strong warp fields that they need to be supported away from the vessel. Their engines are also capable of some of the fastest speeds before the Federation brought all the technologies together so that all the species were able to take part in that advantage. This fast speed allowed the Vulcan scientists to explore farther reaches of space and make first contact with a larger number of species before other races had. While the science and shuttle class vessels are small and specialized, the cruisers are quite uniform in design.
Most Vulcan based designs featured aerodynamic hulls with the nacelle(s) supported by struts. Each supported the cockpit, which led to a bridge in larger ships, near the front of the craft so that visual based navigation could be used in case of technological failure. Engineering sections were aft with the nacelle strut.
Early space-flight programs for Vulcans progressed much like other species. After the teachings of Surak became popular among the culture the united race focused on space exploration. But, as with many Vulcan projects, things progressed more slowly than with other species. Vulcans prefer to take their time and conduct more extensive research into each step of the process rather than risk a failure. The more emotional sub-culture of Vulcans, later called Romulans, were one of the key driving forces in the space program, willing to take more risks in a desperate attempt to gain a foothold in space. Many Romulans were the volunteers for the initial space flights and the test pilots for risky projects.
The space program took over the focus of many of the popular scientists. As the Romulan group made certain advances in technology, the rest of the science community focused on studying the results of each test. And while the large majority of scientists felt it was too early to try out the next level, the Romulan groups often went ahead anyway, needing another set of scientists to study the more recent findings, and leaving other scientists studying the older information and ensuring that something wasn't missed within that data.
Once Vulcan astronauts succeeded in setting up interplanetary travel the rift between Romulans and Vulcans became too stressful for the culture. The Romulan-based science teams refocused their attention on construction of huge generational cruisers to explore interstellar space in person instead of relying only on probe data. Upon completion of testing of the first craft of this kind, the social pressure between the followers of Surak, and the "Romulan" non-followers forced a mass exodus of the Romulan sub-culture onto that craft. Other ships like this were created from a shipyard in orbit of Vulcan II. Once the small fleet was ready, a fleet large enough to comfortably transfer the entire current Romulan culture away from the system, the group took flight.
These generational ships used the latest in Vulcan technology for the time. And they were far larger than anything Vulcans had ever dared to build up till then also. Measuring over 900 meters, these were virtually cities in space. They were so large that there would be no way to build such a craft within a gravity environment, so they were constructed completely within space. Since they were only used by the exiting citizens, they were since referred to as Romulan-class carriers.

Classifications of ships built by the Vulcans include: 
Conial-class transports
Dial-class light cruisers
Durek-class heavy cruisers
Frenez-class light cruisers
Karta-class heavy cruisers
O'Del-class heavy cruisers
O'Kan-class transports
Pulsa-class stations
Romulan-class carriers
Surak-class heavy cruisers
Surak-class runabouts
T'Vrek-class scouts
T'planna Hath-class scouts
Turbel-class light cruisers
T'Vran-class shuttles
-class shuttles
Stavick-class runabouts

Reference: The Motion Picture, Unification, Gambit, First Contact, Breaking the Ice, pon-farr
Information provided by:
The Continuum, www.startrek.com @2002 Paramount Pictures
The Encyclopedia, www.simonsays.com/st, @1997 Pocket Books, Michael & Denise Okuda, Debbie Mirek
Starfleet Command, www.interplay.com, @200 Interplay
Starfleet Academy, www.geocities.com/starfleet_academy_2373, @2000 Pocket Books

