FOOD: Andoran Oatmeal Cookies

I don't get a lot of compliments for my cooking- have you noticed? But when I do, I remember them vividly. One time, much to my surprise, Tom actually raved about my Andoran sweet roots. I used to bake these twice a month but recently exhausted my supply, and we are now light-years from Andor. So instead I add Gizzy sweat to uni-collagic tubers and don't tell anybody. You could make oatmeal cookies and no one would be the wiser. The trick is to prepare a batch of cookies and have them on your galley shelf for whenever the crew hits the mess hall. Here's my quick Andoran oatmeal cookie recipe, ready for storage in your galley.

3 cups all-purpose flour
1 1/2 cups granulated white sugar
1 cup lightly packed dark or light brown sugar
1 teaspoon baking soda
1 teaspoon baking powder
1 cup shortening
3 cups rolled oats
1/2 cup raisins or currants

Into a large bowl, sift together flour, sugars, baking soda, and baking powder. Cut in shortening with a pastry blender or two knives until the mixture is crumbly. You can use an electric food processor for this step. However, be sure to process quickly and stop before you turn the mixture into a smooth paste. The trick is to make this mixture textured and crumbly, just the way Ferengi like it. Next, stir in the rolled oats and the fruit.
To cook, preheat oven to 350 degrees and lightly grease a flat cookies sheet or baking pan. Drop cookies in small half-inch dots onto the sheet, making sure there's enough room for them to spread. Cook each batch at 350 degrees for no more than 7 minutes before checking. Don't let them burn. Better to serve cookies underdone than burnt. Probably 8 minutes is as much baking time as these cookies will take. Let cool and enjoy.
To store uncooked dough, spoon the mixture into a tightly covered labeled container. Mix will keep for at least two months in your pantry during normal temperatures. During the hot summer months, store in the refrigerator. Yields thirty 3-inch cookies.

Reference:
Information provided by:
Star Trek Cookbook, www.simonsays.com/st, @1999 Pocket Books, Ethan Phillips, William J. Birnes
