FOOD: Cookbook

A reference guide used on board the U.S.S. Voyager by Neelix to remind him on the recipes for the crew's favorite meals. Many of the entries he included in his book were taken from the LCARS files in an attempt to prepare foods from the crew's homeland but were modified to account for local ingredients that Neelix had available to him in the distant Delta Quadrant.

[The complete text was modified from its original format. "Behind the scenes" information submitted by Alan Sims and Joe Longo was moved to the end of the file, and all specific recipes were entered into individual files. What is remaining is the narrative offered by the authors.]

Foreward, by Quark (as told to Armin Shimerman)
It isn't often that I give anything away for free- unless, of course, there's greater profit to be made later on. But I'm feeling unusually generous. Ethan Phillips, the actor (now, there's an unprofitable profession) who plays that delightful character Mr. Neelix on Star Trek: Voyager, had the temerity to ask me to write a few words for hie Star Trek Cookbook. At first I just laughed. Not only at his absurd suggestion of charity, but also at the unbelievably garish makeup he was wearing. (There are things even I won't do for a living!!) But then I thought, why not? After all, we serve some of that same food (granted it's replicated) at Quark's Bar, Grill, Gaming House, and Holosuite Arcade (see the recipe Poulet Ferenge'. I thought, why not get some free publicity for my place in exchange for a few brief minutes at the word processor. So without any further ado:
BUY THE BOOK! COOK THE FOOD! AND TELL YOUR FRIENDS! YOU'LL LOVE IT!
There, Ethan, I hope your happy.

Introduction, by Neelix
"Mr. Neelix," Captain Janeway began, amazed at how I'd transformed her private dining room into a ship's galley and was serving out breakfast to the crew.
At first the captain was a little taken aback. She asked me to follow her to the bridge. I was to serve as scout extraordinary.
"Mr. Neelix," the captain explained, "you could be the most important person on board this ship, and we need your help to find our way home, but my dining room..."
If you want to know the truth, I considered my redesign of the captain's dining room something of an accomplishment. Ever since I joined the Voyager crew, I'd had nothing to do. Frankly, I was feeling as useful as a second pinkie until the captain chose to confide in me her deepest concerns. I was flattered, of course, and not a little humbled that Captain Janeway would share her thoughts with me about the morale of the crew, the building of an esprit de corps, and my prowess as a scout through these alien territories.
"why that's no problem, Captain," I said. "In my travels throughout the quadrant I've encountered so many different cultures I must have a million different types of meals I can prepare. It didn't take me long at all to set up a galley and reroute the mess hall power conduits, and I'll learn everything about each member of the crew so I can make their favorite dishes as well."
"You could have asked me, Mr. Neelix," the captain said. And I could feel her bristle at the loss of her dining room, but I knew that in the end she would see it my way.
"You can trust me, Captain," I assured her. "You have found the right Talaxian to guide you through this quadrant. And, my cooking will accomplish wonders, just wait and see."
And that's how my assignment to the galley on Voyager was solidified. Plain old, companionable Neelix became Neelix: scout to the Delta Quadrant, trusted confidential adviser to Captain Janeway, occasional ambassador, ship's morale officer, but, most important, the chief cook. It was a hefty job, a big challenge to take on. I did not know the crew. But I could apply myself, just as I did to woo and win my beloved Kes.
I kept a careful record of all the meals I prepared in my galley and proudly offer in this cookbook some of the best and most notable dishes. The actual recipes have been reconfigured for human using ingredients entirely from the planet Earth. You don't need to serve onboard a starship in order to cook the recipes I've prepared. In fact, this cookbook is the only complete gastronomical reference to all our adventures in the Delta Quadrant. So, in the grand tradition of Starfleet, these are my recipes from the Starship Voyager, whose seventy-thousand-light-year mission is to explore new worlds, seek out new civilizations, and, above all, to return home from where no Starfleet vessel has gone before.
The Crew of the U.S.S. Voyager
Chief Cook and Morale Officer
Straightening out what would become my galley and organizing the pots, pans, and various utensils, I knew that I must take Captain Janeway's admonitions to heart. I would be assiduous in my assignment. The crew's needs were my needs. I would live to serve- meals, that is.
But before I could begin preparing the dishes the crew would love, I needed to understand more about them, about what they liked to eat. So I decided to conduct a series of interviews, a kind of "away mission" to each crew member's palate. On this journey I came to learn many things, not only about the crew's tastes in food and things like traditional holiday meals and the concept of comfort food, but also about the crew as individuals. They shared with me their hobbies and hopes, their peccadilloes and pet peeves, their noble and varied reasons for being in Starfleet or the Maquis, and a little more than I wanted to know about different gastrointestinal ailments. It was an illuminating experience that I would later draw upon in many ways. As a chef, I could surprise them with a taste of home tucked away inside some alien morsel. And as morale officer, I now knew a little bit more about them, which would help me reach out in a personal way when they needed support and kindness. All in all, it was an inspiring, stimulating, and very productive mission.
My first meeting was with Ensign Harry Kim. He actually sought me out first; he had a bad need for a bottle of soy sauce. I was able to accommodate him by giving him a jar of crushed Bothan brain fluid I'd had sitting around for years in my own private cargo, the saltiest extract in the quadrant. It had a carameaceous enzyme added that made it very similar to what he desired. The ensign was overjoyed! It started us chatting. This is a sweet, decent young fellow, overwhelmed at being so far from home, deeply missing his family, but brave and devoted to Starfleet. He told me he was from Earth, of Asian descent, and was quite knowledgeable about the cuisine of his heritage. I learned about soy, rice, plums, ginger, oyster sauces, sake, kimchi, rockfish, mirin, and wasabi. I came away with a substantial idea of what he liked, and what follows are some of the meals I've prepared on the ship just for Mr. Kim: Chicken and Sun Dried Tomatoes, Rice Noodles in Milk, Moo-Goo Ngow, Mead, Pasta with Clam Sauce, Vulcan Mocha Ice Cream.
The next crew member I sought out was our first officer, Mr. Chakotay. I engaged him in a round of hoverball, and though I was new to the sport, I roundly beat him. This impressed him, and we had a somewhat easy chat over some cold pejuta in a small lounge on Deck 11. Though he was somewhat taciturn, I admired him a great deal, especially his deep pride in his Native American ancestry, which he rediscovered after joining Starfleet against his father's wishes. His tattoo is a sign of his honor to his father and his people.
The first officer is a fascinating and complex man, spiritual, skilled, and interested in many areas. He reveres all living things, and I learned an important fact right away: he will not eat any meat. Any idea I entertained of preparing jerky from his animal guide is completely out of the question. My favorite dish to make for the commander is a simple vegetarian stew. I always include dafkies in it; they are similar to corn kernels. Also, mushrooms, which he loves. Chicken Mole, Turkey Mole, Angla'bosque, Maquis Breakfast Bars, Talaxian Mushroom Soup.
Mr. tom Paris, like Harry Kim, was an easy man to get to know. Tom has an abundance of charm, a quick smile, and a fine sense of humor. Were it not for my misperceived notions about his intentions regarding Kes, we'd have been friends much sooner. Unfortunately it wasn't until our first away mission that we forged a real bond. I've learned about his troubled past and the second chance Captain Janeway gave him. I've come to respect in equal measure his outrageous skills as a pilot and his winning way with the opposite sex. But it was in our very first meeting that I first heard about his fascination with twentieth-century Earth culture. From cars to cartoons, movies to mud wrestling, and smoothies to submarine-race watching at Palisades Park, Tom has an encyclopedia knowledge of that time period and genuinely enjoys sharing it.
As we sat in a quiet corner of the mess hall, I learned all about trains, bicycles, water skis, and skateboards. He raved about his favorite actors: Brando, Dean, De Niro, and Phillips. But I was of course most interested in the food from that era. He told me about comfort food, diner food, fast food, TV dinners, coffee shops, steak houses, truck stops, and drive-throughs. He described blueberry pancakes and Belgian waffles, caramel popcorn and Cheez Whiz, nacho chips and soft pretzels. He took me on a journey from apple pie through Zonkers, and when he finished, I just about sprinted to the mess mall, where I shaped and baked my first loaf of meat. Mother-in-law Kugel, Pilot's Quick Pizza, Gyronian Meat Loaf, Andoran Oatmeal Cookies.
It took a long time for me to meet up with Lieutenant Torres, even though we were in the same crew. The half-Klingon, half-human engineer who'd rather stare into a matter/antimatter containment field than plow into a plate of Rokeg blood pie didn't have the time, professed note to care about the food, or bristled that concerns more pressing than a heart of baby targ interfered. She put our talk off for weeks, until I discovered her fondness for Briorian needle knuckles, the fresher the better. I took a bowl to her quarters one morning, and she lit up like a little girl on Prixin Eve. She excitedly grabbed the bowl, invited me in, and promptly sat down to devour the knuckles, a weird combination of cartilage and candy.
While B'Elanna snacked we chatted, but as soon as she finished, she wanted to move on to other tasks. Still, in our short time together, I learned what I needed. It was the carnivore in her, the Klingon who feeds on the fresh kill, that I'd celebrate in my cooking for her. Food that's literally alive. Organs pulsing with life; worms, maggots, and mice feet; hearts, corneas, and marrow.
Okay, let's cut right to the chase. When you think Klingon, you think blood pie, heart of targ, bloodwine, Klingon Ale, and lot and lots of gagh.
What I serve in my galley is "nouveau Klingon". I stay true to the traditional Klingon cold breakfast buffet, recreate from Delta Quadrant ingredients the essential blood pie and heart of whatever passes for a targ, but supplement with the Earth-type recipes that Lieutenant Torres seems to relish when she's more like a human. But whether a human or a Klingon, there's always gagh- the staple of the Klingon warrior's table. For her I made: Green Beans and Walnuts, Gagh, Heart of Targ, Rokeg Blood Pie.
When she first joined our crew (and I use the word "join" loosely), Seven of Nine hadn't eaten real food since she was seven, or nine, or thereabouts. Since she was a Borg, some meals I considered for her included crushed combadge soup, diced tricorder pie, sliced bioneural pack, and scalloped class-4 probe. But it was less a question of finding out what she liked than just reeducating her in how to eat.
Out of respect for her atrophied digestive system, I served her steamed vegetables and a few other tidbits I thought might be appealing. Seven never finished the meal (her past intervened); of the six items on the plate, Seven ate two and left four. But as time has passed, she has come to respect my cooking. And though a meal is no longer just six of one, half a dozen of the other to Seven, it has been a special challenge finding out what this Borg likes. A few things that I know she looks forward to follow here: Seven-up, a carbonated beverage from ancient earth. Anything from a 7-Eleven store. Although she fought me when it came time to eat, my cooking was so wonderful, her resistance was futile. She did eat: Steamed Cadre Kab, Wild Mushroom Soup, Borg Tricorder Pie.
Do holograms feast on digital elk? Who cares? I'm sorry. I meant, Who knows? Certainly the Doctor, our Emergency Medical Hologram, does, and I sought hi out to find the answer. I never really had to cook for him, so I'd put off this interview for some time. When I got around to it, I found him in sickbay, listening to Tosca, and he was a little irritated on being disturbed. When I told him it was for a cookbook and that he'd be quoted in full, his holoego jumped at the chance. He told me holograms do eat, if cybernetically obligated, but obviously it had to be holofood, and he then proceeded to give me a lengthy and somewhat incomprehensible description of a hologram's digestive system, having to do with photon synapses, light matrix subroutines, and emitter preferences, but I just cut him off and asked him his favorite meal: Picardo Penne, Hrothgar's Leg of Elk.
I didn't have to interview my Kes. He palate was no stranger to me. From soup to sweets, I knew everything she loved, and I relished cooking for her. When I think of Kes, who is in my heart, my soul, my very lung, I become overwhelmed with emotion. I met her, fell in love, lost her to the Kazon, then with the help of Voyager rescued her. And now she's gone again. But I always knew she'd leave. Ocampans live only nine years; if we all knew our loved ones would live only that short span of time, how bittersweet would our love be? Kes was like a spring day, only lovelier. And like the long ago days of my youth, she is a memory now. Was our relationship platonic? Romantic? Intimate? It was everything, and when I cooked for her, I put everything good in my being into the meals. And any meal I made specifically for my Kes had to include tubers. The fact is, Ocampans love tubers, the underground parts of some plants. They can be sweet, sharp, poisonous; they are swellings of underground stems, and they nourish with starch and zest. From water chestnuts to yams, Jerusalem artichokes to potatoes, I scoured the quadrant to satisfy my love's love of tubers. Good-Karma Lemon Lentil Soup, Potato Salad, Hatana, Varmeliate Fiber, Talaxian Turnip Stew, Jimbalian Fudge Cake.
And now Mr. Vulcan, my friend Tuvok. This man could play King Lear with his eyebrow! It's been said he has a very loving relationship with a two-by-four. He walks in his sleep so that he can get his rest and exercise at the same time. If you ask him what time it is, he'll tell you how to make a watch. But I love Tuvok. Sometimes I think my only goal in life is to coax a smile from his dark, somber being. I may as well try to chew without teeth. Don't ask me why, but I need to please him. He was the first member of the crew I met after beaming up, and I quickly learned that a conversationalist he is not. It wasn't easy to learn his tastes, but after the ultimate mind-meld we shared when we became Tuvix, I have a darn good idea. And even now, I'll often seek him out to further my knowledge. Like all Vulcans, he's a vegetarian, preferring foods that are poached, steamed, or lightly sautéed. The best time to approach him is just after he's tended his prize orchids. Then he is most relaxed. What follows are some of his favorites: Quick Red Sauce Primavera, Special Scrambled Eggs, Plomeek Soup.
Finally, my captain. I find myself tempted to serve this extraordinary woman a meal of steel, iron, and fire. Steel for courage, iron for strength, fire for determination. Or a roast goose; the goose represented "safe return" to the ancient Native Americans of Earth, a worthy obsession for my captain. Kathryn Janeway is everything good about Voyager. To me she is a nourishing, powerful, highly creative leader, skillful, delightful, and wise. I owe my life to her- literally- but she has also given me a home, a community of friends, and a purpose. My gratitude to her is boundless, and I try to pour that into the meals I make for her. Captain Janeway has some favorites. She loves hot coffee in the morning and warm pecan pie for dessert. She says, rising to her full Starfleet magisterial authority, that coffee is "the finest organic suspension ever served." The captain has coffee with every meal, sometimes five or six time a day. But for breakfast, besides her coffee, her childhood favorite is basic strawberries with real cream. I make it for her with a little variation on the standard dish. Pork Tenderloin, Strawberries and Cream, Talsa Root Soup, Welsh Rarebit, Asparagus with Hollandaise Sauce, Darvot Fritters.
The Starfleet Computer
In between coming up with new recipes for the crew members and dodging a high-energy tachyon beam every now and then when we encountered some new hostile race in the Delta Quadrant, who tended to look at me more as skeet than as a valued member of the crew, I pursued my research in the Starfleet computer memory banks on the favorite foods of previous crews across the centuries, as far back as the original Enterprise, right through the records of Deep Space 9.
If we ever get back to the Alpha Quadrant (or if I start to lactate, whichever comes first), I've promised myself, I will pop over to Deep Space 9 to see what the trading is like and try my hand at dealing with the Ferengi, masters of the deal. In the meantime, drifting along the backwaters of the galaxy here in the Delta Quadrant, I'm glad I took the time to research the culinary delights of Starfleet crews from times past, because otherwise I would never have believed the wealth of diversity represented among those personnel. I feel I know Captains Kirk, Picard, and Commander Sisko because I can cook for any one of them and send them off to fight the enemy on a full belly- or have a nice nap.
I was a little surprised at what I found in the records of the U.S.S. Enterprise about Captain James T. Kirk and his companions. They didn't seem to eat that many different foods. Kirk liked his coffee good and strong, and Spock liked his Plomeek soup and Vulcan mocha, and somebody for some reason put on a year's supply of Dr. Ding Dong's "WOW, That's Incredibly Hot, That Sauce," but between the uneasy peace with the Klingons and hostilities breaking out over the Romulan Neutral Zone every five nanoseconds, the crew on the Enterprise played it pretty much close to their homeworld. Granted, it was still years before the Khitomer Accords with the Klingon Empire, the Federation hadn't met the Borg yet, and nobody knew a Bajoran mush less a Cardassian. They played with their tribbles, got into bar fights with the Klingons, and got put in their place by races like the Metrons who said someday, maybe someday, you'll actually wind up like us.
Until I read my Starfleet logs, I always thought that Kirk was more of a fresser than an esser, like his Klingon antagonists, but in reality, the crew of the Enterprise kind of tiptoed around their replicated meals. If anything, Captain Kirk seemed to enjoy a belt more than he liked a thick cut of Kansas City steak. If it took a bowl of Vulcan Plomeek soup to straighten out Spock's personality, then Captain Kirk was all for it.
Kasha Varnishkas, Gala Apple Pie, Vulcan Apple Pastry, Quadrotricicale Bread, Lemon Chicken, Haggis, Haggis Lite, Tennessee Smoked Baked Beans, Finagle's Folly, Mint Julip, Antarian Glow Water, Tranya.
One of the first things that struck me about the Enterprise-D as I perused the computer logs was the striking difference between the bridge crew of the Enterprise-D and that of the other Enterprise. It was as if those early explorers in the Alpha Quadrant were like Earth's first pioneers of the ancient West, rolling out through the Cumberland Gap with Dan'l Boone in the first wagon trains, unsure of what they would find, but tough and resilient enough to take all of what deep space had to dish out and give it back exponentially. The Enterprise-D was, by contrast, more than a warship; it was a floating biosphere with family residences, schools, recreational facilities, and even a bar. My, how Starfleet had changed since those early days of the first explorers. Sitting in the command chair was no longer the womanizing warrior James T. Kirk, but the diplomatic eqicurean, no less the renowned Borg fighter, Jean-Luc Picard.
I can't help but appreciate that Captain Jean-Luc Picard was much, much more than just a starship captain; he was a gourmand, a mandarin with exceptionally good taste who loved his Earl Grey hot, his Chateau Picard at fifty-five degrees and his champagne ice-crackling cold. From the ginger tea his tante handed out to all the little children of the vineyard who suffered from the catarrh to his beloved beluga caviar that he stored on the Enterprise because the replicated stuff was never as good as the real thing. Picard loved the sublime.
Breakfast Croissant, Brioche, Petrokian Sausage, Klingon Sausage, Coltayin Roots with Terrellian Spices, Peach Cobbler, Watercress Sandwiches, Earl Grey tea, Madeleines, Earl Grey Chocolate Cake, Picard Cocktail, The Picard, Foraiga, Hasperat, Ginger Tea, Barbeque Marinade, Bregit Lung, Pipius Claw
Ro Laren was freed from prison and assigned to the Enterprise to act as a liaison on a sensitive mission that ultimately was compromised by Starfleet's Admiral Kennelly. Ro's honor was restored. Years later, at a banquet in Ro's honor, Captain Picard obtained the Bajoran delicacy Foraiga. It was a magnificent tribute to the young officer. But in the end Ro declared her allegiance to the Maquis.
Captain Picard was not alone in his pursuit of adventures at the edge of the human envelope. I'm sure, therefore, it was more than coincidence that he chose an equally aggressive and independent first officer who jumped on his assignments. For example, I read with delight how Commander Riker prepared for his mission aboard the Pagh by learning to consume, if not love, the Klingon staples that he would have to eat. He learned how to share a huge plate of fresh gagh with his fellow Klingon officers, scooping up handfuls of the wriggly little serpent worms from a bed of gladst.
He learned to drink Klingon bloodwine and hearty Klingon ale; dip into Worf's delicacy pipius claw. Riker and Worf bonded over the raw gaminess of Klingonese cuisine, and even though they might have had their differences now and then over the charms of the dramatically beautiful girl in the peptide cake, Commander Deanna Troi. Riker and Worf fought side by side together on many an away mission, rescued Captain Picard from the Borg, and time and again saved the Enterprise-D from total destruction.
Lieutenant Worf, the security officer, is on eof the most perplexing individuals among the roster of Starfleet Officers. A solitary man, he is Klingon, but he was raised by former Starfleet Chief Petty Officer Sergey Rozhenko- and his wife Helena- who found him amid the ruins of the Khitomer settlement after the massacre and adopted him. Thus, Worf, is a kind of anomaly, a full-blooded Klingon warrior from an important ruling family who was raised on Earth by humans. Typical of transplanted members of a different culture, Worf not only clung to his Klingon roots while he was growing up, but eventually embraced them, fighting alongside Gowron in the civil war.
Worf is a stickler for Klingon custom and Klingon food. Even on Earth, he bragged, his mother, Helena Rozhenko, learned how to make Rokeg Blood Pie the old-fashioned way and served it to him on more than just special occasions. Worf use to eat two or three of these at a sitting. In my research into the tastes of predilections of Starfleet personnel in whose boots I am proud to walk, Worf, even more than Spock and Data, is my most intriguing subject.
Parthas, Parthas a la Yuta, Owen Eggs, Spiny Lobe Fish, Rokeg Blood Pie, Klingon Bloodwine, Prune Juice Cocktail, Vermicula
The chief medical officer, and Wesley's mother, Beverly Crusher, brought more than stern science to the sickbay on the Enterprise; she brought a very homey touch. Anybody who bothers to read the Enterprise and personal logs knows that there was something brewing between Picard and Crusher long before the two were captured by a hostile species and implanted with telepathic devices that allowed them to read one another's deepest thoughts. That's when they realized they'd been in love for a long, long time.
Dr. Crusher's Cure-all for Insomnia, Chicken Soup, Balso Tonic
It's hard not to look back through the logs of the Enterprise-D without being struck by the dramatic beauty of ship's counselor, Commander Deanna Troi. Do empaths bask in the reflected passions of people in their own environment? I only know from the experiences I shared with my beloved Kes, and the answer is yes. Kes knew her effect upon those around her, namely me, and reacted to it. I must someday ask these same questions of Commander Troi.
Eggplant Casserole, Chocolate Cake with Raspberries, Oskoid
Created by Dr. Noonien Soong at the Omicron Theta colony in 2335 and reviled by its inhabitants, Data was discovered by the crew of the Starship Tripoli. On the Enterprise-D, Data became Captain Picard's second officer. Separated from his past and his father, unsure of his own immortality in a future without horizons, Data sought some companionship through his relationship with his cat, named Spot, after a dog.
Among his many creations as the owner of a finicky cat was his homemade replicated cat food. I have managed to re-create food substance #219 for your kitchens, but suggest that you shape it into little cat biscuits because it is so densely packed with nutritious components; I don't want you to overload your feline's system.
Samarian Sunset, Peptide Cake, Mint frosting
Starfleet records abound with stories of the feasts of magic performed by Chief Engineer Geordi La Forge. Courage in the face of collapsing containment fields, recalibrations of complex energy-inversion formulas at the last minute to keep the Enterprise from exploding into exponential numbers of submicroscopic particles, and wild guesses in the face of Data's overwhelming androidian logic that save the day when there is almost no day left to save. This is Geordi La Forge. Like Tiresias, the blind prophet from Earth mythology, Geordi could see what others could not because his VISOR gave him powers of perception even Data did not have. Where the mighty Worf strode through darkness on sheer belief in his prowess to defeat the unknown, La Forge could see.
Crab-Stuffed Salmon, Pasta al Fiorella, Fungilli
Miles O'Brien's life actually improved: from being the most put-upon individual aboard the Enterprise, he became the most put-upon individual onboard Deep Space 9. At least the Enterprise worked. When you threw a switch, something happened. But Deep Space 9 was rundown even before the Cardassians abandoned it to the Bajorans. It's a rough life, but what's a man to do? Roll your sleeves up, and get the station working, then spend some time down at the local pub for a pint of bitters. And indeed, that's what he does. Miles is an uncomplicated man with simple wants. He loves his family and he likes his pint. He also likes a very ancient Earth dish that he thinks was named after one of his ancestors in Dublin.
Potatoes O'Brien, Plankton Loaf
After the Cardassians retreated from Terok Nor and left it to the Bajorans, and after the Bajorans asked the Federation to administer it, and after the new station commander discovered the Bajoran wormhole into the Gamma Quadrant, and after the station was navigated into a protective position near the wormhole, Benjamin Sisko was upgraded from commander of a backwater station in nowherespace to protector of one of the most important facilities in the entire quadrant. Sisko's career quotient went right through the roof of the galaxy, and he began attracting enemies even more dangerous than some of the folks Voyager's had the pleasure to meet. Maybe there were no Kazon or Krenim, phage, Hirogen, or Species 8472, but the Jem'Hadar and shapeshifting Founders were trouble enough.
Sisko had his hands full from the moment he set foot on Deep Space 9, but at least he had the Promenade for fun and lots of commercial business to oversee. That's why I want to visit Deep Space 9 if we ever get back to the Alpha Quadrant and maybe even play a game of dabo with Quark. I know the business opportunities will be enormous, especially if I get the chance to talk to Quark, or the nagus, in private.
But enough about me, the food's what's the most important thing about Deep Space 9, and there are real restaurants that serve it. I could make a living there just by opening up Neelix's Delta Quadrant Warp Drive-In or the Wormhole Bar where the folks of the Gamma Quadrant meet the people of the Delta Quadrant. It would be the talk of the galaxy. Commander Sisko, a scion of an important restaurant-owning family on Earth, would be my first customer. Jake Sisko would write me a great review, and maybe even Papa Joe would give me a few tips here and there. There are lots of favorites I'd serve up for the Siskos, pere, grand-pere, ewt fils, on my eclectic menu of transgalactic treats.
Benjamin Sisko wasn't overwhelmed with joy when he was assigned to the ramshackle mining facility previously called Terok Nor by its Cardassian builders. Deep Space 9, as it was renamed, could barely stay in position, there were so many things wrong with it, but Sisko had run fleetyard facilities before and knew hot to administer a supply and logistics command. He was in for a shock when he first saw the condition of Deep Space 9 and worked hard to bring the station to a Starfleet level of operational capability. That's when Commander Sisko- who had grown up in his father's bistro, Sisko's in le vieux carre' in New Orleans, and known his gumbo from his jambalaya- hit the jackpot. Not only did he get a wormhole to run, but he became the Emissary, one of the icons of the Bajoran religion. He learned how to appreciate Bajoran delicacies as well as the hot Tabasco-laced stews from his hometown. Sometimes he even combined the two cultures in a single dish like ratamba stew. Ratamba Stew, Pasta Boudin, Chicken a la Sisko, Chiraltan Tea, Greenbread, Shrimp Creole with Mandalay Sauce, Jambalaya, Sautéed Beets, Endive Salad, Gumbo, Bread-Pudding Soufflé, Uttaberry Crepes
I do appreciate Klingon culture, as does Jadzia Dax. So here is my encomium to Dax in all of her/his incarnations, especially the present one; Lieutenant Commander Jadzia Dax, the Klingon culture aficionado extraordinaire. She can wield a bat'leth with the best of them, whether it be in a holodeck simulation or in the kinds of free-for-all matches Klingons truly relish. She likes wild, loud midnight parties full of Andorian ale and lots of bloodwine. And she has half of Deep Space 9 running around panting after her. I wouldn't mind a Trill like Jadzia beaming around Voyager. I'm a spot man myself, although you wouldn't think so just to look at me, and certainly appreciate a fine symmetrical pattern or organized skin pigmentation as well as the next guy. I think Jadzia and I would get along quite well. After all, I can rustle up a Klingon dish fit for Kahless himself and now, since I have led Klingons into battle, you could say that I know what it takes. If she likes the highwayman business spirit of the Ferengi, which she says she does, she'd love the life of a Talaxian trader. We could show the Ferengi a thing or two about business, I can tell you that. And unlike the Ferengi, the Talaxians are born diplomats. I think Jadzia could go for me in a big way. Azna, Andorian tuber root, Raktajino, Icoberry Juice Cocktail, Moba Fruit, Citrus Blend
A freedom fighter from the time she was twelve years old, Kira Nerys was born during the Cardassian occupation of Bajor and joined the Shakaar resistance cell of the Bajoran underground. She had a hard life before the Cardassians were finally driven out; an internee at a Singha refugee camp, a secret agent sent to Terok Nor to retrieve a list of Bajoran collaborators, and the member of a military expedition to liberate the infamous Gallitep labor camp from the Cardassians. So she knows how to fight. She also knows how to kill, having blown away the chemist Vaatrik after he figured out Kira's real identity on Terok Nor. Ironically, she could have been in deep trouble when Odo first suspected her of pulling off the murder, but she tricked him into thinking her innocent. It wasn't until years later that Odo learned the truth.
Kira- like most Bajorans who lived under the tyrannical Cardassian colonial regime that systematically starved them by taking food off the planet- loves to eat. Matopin Rock Fungi, Tuwaly Pie, Delvin Fluff Pastries, Jumja Tea, Alvinian Melons
On Voyager we have an Emergency Medical Hologram; on Deep Space 9, they get the real McCoy, a living, breathing doctor with a bedtime manner and everything. Dr. Bashir may be an expert at medicine, but he's a sucker for Quark's tricks. His favorite at Quark's is Tarkalian tea, a dark penetrating brew that you can drink at night and not be afraid it will keep you up.
Spam-and-Beans Bolognese, Tarkalian Tea
I'd like to say that Odo was a favorite dish, but without a real digestive system- because he's a changeling- it's problematical. Odo does drink, however, kind of, by turning part of himself into a glass. It looks weird, but then so's Odo, whose name even means "unknown" in Bajoran.
Baked Tomato Bruschetta
Miles O'Brien transferred over to Deep Space 9 from a starship. As a reward for the courage to change, he received a promotion and a real increase in status. Granted, DS9 wasn't the Enterprise, the flagship of the fleet, but there was an even greater challenge in trying to keep the run-down Cardassian operating systems from completely falling apart on the baling-wire space station. The Enterprise was first-class White Star Line luxury compared to what they had to live with on Deep Space 9, and Miles had a wife and daughter to worry about. So Miles threw himself into his work and into developing new culinary tastes. He enjoyed himself at Quark's, played darts, sampled Bajoran food, nibbled on Klingon food, and tried a Cardassian dish here and there. But mostly, Miles came back to good old-fashioned home cooking, especially when the dish included his very favorite meat no matter what quadrant he was sent to- veal.
Fricandeau Stew, Eggs and Bacon and Corned Beef Hash, Chee'lash, Senarian Egg Broth, Q'parol
Quark- now there's a Ferengi I'd like to do some business with if I ever warp myself over to Deep Space 9. At the rate Voyager's going, it would probably be easier for me to find a way through the Gamma Quadrant to the Bajoran wormhole and right to the station. I'd have me a drink at Quark's, maybe share a few recipes with him, and see if there's any trading we could do. Indeed, there's a lot I could learn from Quark if I only had the chance. Maybe I'd open a bar just like his somewhere in a distant quadrant and let my clientele bring the business right to my very door. Maybe, but the next quadrant is many light-years away and I'm not getting any younger.
The food and drink Quark serves at his famous Bar, Grill, Gaming House, and Holosuite Arcade represent the best in both the Alpha and Beta Quadrants. And the replicater, programmed with special recipes and fine-quality foods, his special drinks, the menu at his restaurant, and the list of foods available from the replicater, you could fill an entire tour of duty with different foods every week. Here's just a sample of what you can get at Quark's.
Poulet Ferenge, Millipede Juice, Puree of Beetle, Slug Liver, Wentlian Condor Snake, Tube Grubs, Alterian Chowder, Vulcan Mollusks, Jumbo Romulan Mollusks, Palamarian Sea Urchin, Icoberry Torte, Ferengi Spore Pie, Augergine Stew, Kohlanese Stew, Vak Clover Soup, Yigrish Cream Pie, Pyrellian Ginger Tea, Lokar Beans, Gramillan Sand Peas, Marzonion Buds in Krasie Juice, Klingon Skull Stew with Tripe, Klingon Organ Stew, El Bouche: Klingon Throat Stew, Racht, Zilm'kach, Yridian Brandy
How would you feel if your only moniker in the place where you work and live was "my idiot brother"? Since I never met Rom personally, I can't answer that question, but it's clear that the assistant manager of Quark's has more skills than simply whupping up a stardrifter or a glass of Icoberry Fizz every now and then. He is an engineer of some repute, but he's humble and takes the browbeating- and Ferengi have a lot of brow- in the spirit of genuine brotherly love. But he careful, even Ferengi brothers are supposed to be treacherous- it's the Ferengi way. Remember the 139th Rule of Acquisition, "Wives serve, brothers inherit."
Pancakes
One of the most complex adversaries the Federation ever faced, Dukat has had a career that has twined around the lives of Sisko and Kira just like a strand of DNA. He was a bitter enemy when he was commander of Terok Nor, and Sisko and Dukat battled each other after the Federation took control of Deep Space 9.
Dukat has always displayed fishy behavior toward Sisko. That's no mystery, because the Cardassians have a fondness for fishy things; hot fish juice accompanied by red leaf tea, or mollusks in yamok sauce and stews made from exotic game meats with yamok sauce. How they love their yamok sauce. They put it on everything. You could shine shoes with the stuff and they'd eat it off the shoe leather, if they didn't eat the leather itself.
Tojal in Yamok Sauce, Zabo, Sem'hal Stew, Hot Fish Juice, Red Leaf tea
Benjamin Sisko's son, Jake, grew up on Deep Space 9 far from his family home in Louisiana and his grandfather's restaurant. But the commander prided himself on home cooking- he learned it from his father- and Jake learned to appreciate a good meal. He's a kid after my own heart, and I'd love to prepare a freshly cooked hot bowl of oatmeal one day for him. Here are some of his favorites: Jumja, Oatmeal, I'danian Spice Pudding
Cardassians are spooky, to say the least, and Garak is perhaps the spookiest. A man who calls himself a tailor, Garak was forced to stay behind on Deep Space 9 after the Cardassians evacuated the station. Garak is a sucker for sweets, and his favorites are the Cardassian delicacy, the ultra-sweet and ultra-silky Delavian chocolates that might well have been genetically designed to appeal to the Cardassian chocolate pleasure centers; they're that satisfying. Delavian Chocolates
The Strange New Worlds of the Delta Quadrant
I should think the crew stumbled into some good fortune when the captain welcomed me aboard. They needed a cook, and I believe I was the answer to their prayers. With my background as a trader, I'd already sampled a great deal of the Delta Quadrant's cuisine. It seemed I was always eating at a strange table, finalizing a deal over some new dish. That's always been a real thrill for me, sitting down to eat something I couldn't name, couldn't recognize, biting into a new, alive, exotic taste! And it happened often, traveling about as I was, I never knew where my next meal was coming from.
I was neither a beggar nor a chooser. I didn't have the luxury of turning up my nose at an opportunity to fuel up. I ate what came my way, and I've learned that a trader can use anything he finds. I once cooked festle lichen in a team that rose off the wet trees of the Dorian moon at dawn. I've eaten raw fud, a kind of ground clam from Izioz that's 92% genitalia. They make rabbits look like puritans. The yax once fed me a feast of rattlefish nipples, wire smelts, and paradise snails that made me ill for a month. They called it sashimi; I called it bait. While bartering with the Tak tak, I sampled some of their deep-fried Tak Tak toes. Or were they tic tac toes? So many meals, I can't remember: was it ocean ocean, sand candy, or lightning lice?
Eating the food of a species is a terrific way to learn about them, too. In the following section I show you an assortment of the many different recipes I've prepared in the mess hall over the last few years. I've cooked many dishes, some of which the crew was not too fond of, some they've disliked, others they wouldn't eat, and a few they claimed were not even food. It would be dishonest of me to say my feelings are not hurt. Indeed, I consider myself a renowned chef. But it seems to me that they sometimes treat me like a badly programmed replicater. Still, we'll be together for a while yet, and I'm hoping that thrill in encountering new foods I spoke of will be contagious. Talaxians are famous for their hope and optimism.
All that notwithstanding, I get a lot of complaints in the galley. In fact, Harry Kim and Tom Paris thought it would be very funny, after staying up all night when they were off-shift and watching ancient videos of twentieth-century Earth late-night television, to put this notice up all over the ship's computer. Captain Janeway laughed so hard she spilled her one and only raktajino ration for the day and then got mad at me. Even Mr. Vulcan cracked a smile, although I'm sure it was out of politeness, because he didn't know what everyone was laughing at. He took it seriously.
Top Ten Reasons the Crew Hates Neelix's Cooking
10: Two words: Kazon saliva
9: Kidney is not a breakfast food
8: A little confused by the soup fork
7: Can't take any more "cream of yesterday"
6: Swill du Jour
5: Square meals mean diced carrots
4: Tuesday is fungus night
3: The fruitcake leaks
2: Pleeka rind
1: Jelly a la Neelix
This wasn't funny. But I do have other dishes that some people on Voyager find intriguing. After all, we've been to so many worlds that I had to pick up some tricks along the way. One of the first, after figuring out the favorite foods of the crew, was using the raw ingredients and culinary cultures we encountered as we wended our way through the Delta Quadrant.
Artilotian Loosedine, Deep-Fried Blue Tashmanian Spiders, Throck, Sweetened and Pickled Fantasia Beans, Goorizian Fish Stew, Fried Mochana Shoots, Jimbalian Seven-World Omelet, Komar Cookies, Laurellian Rice Pudding, Mehaxian Sod, Mokra Couscous, Pan-Braised Nako Cutlets, Raktajino Cake, Traggle Nectar, Yallitian Crystal Salad, The Elixir of Life
Top Ten Borg Recipes
10: Blackened Braise a la Borg
9: Borb-a-bob
8: McBorg
7: Borg on a Bun
6: Borg Kibble
5: Borg Bisque with Shredded Borganzola Cheese
4: All-you-can eat Borg's Big Boy Borscht
3: Borg Cherry Cobbler
2: String Cheese
1: Smorgasborg
Sprid Wings, Alfarian Hair Pasta, Mool, Chili
The Lost Recipes of Talax
Ensign Kim once told me an old Chinese proverb. "A hundred men may make an encampment, but it takes a woman to make a home." My mother made our home a heaven. Her name was Axa. When I think of the Great Forest, I think of my mother and I smell her cooking. I loved me mother for making my childhood the happiest time of my life. That sense of safety, of joy, of being loved, has never really left me. Everywhere I go I carry it with me, this gift from my mother, and from my entire family. In the darkest of times, of which I've had my share, I have never fully consented to despair. I've come very close, but the knowledge that I've experienced something so fulfilling has sustained me. My wish for everyone is a childhood like I had.
My home and my family were completely obliterated in the metreon, cascade, soon after my spots came in. Rinax, the moon I lived on, was reduced to a cinder. Over three hundred thousand Talaxians died. I escaped physical harm, being on Talax at the time, but the rage I felt was in some ways just as toxic. It corrupted me for a great while. And though that fury is gone now, there remains a constant ache. Even in my dreams, I still grieve. the memory of my family is with me constantly. I am and will always be homesick.
Before the horror came and broke everything, there were so many wonderful times! That's what I remember now, the faces of my sisters as the endlessly spoiled me; my papa, Eximar, teaching me how to fire a xeno cannon, my mother rocking me in her arms as the yute birds sang. That yute bird never shut up! My pet udox, Pixie. My hovercraft. My hut in the woods. Vaxi, the adorable sweet Vaxi who lived next door. And I remember the meals. The meals I've tried to re-create on Voyager for my new family, and that I want to share with you here.
Of all the meals I remember, it is the celebration of the holiday of Prixin I recall with the most delight. This traditional feast day, which actually lasted five full days, was a festival of family. From what I can surmise, it was similar to Love Day on Ocampa, Earth's Thanksgiving Day, the Evening of Hope on Hakos, and probably a myriad of other days throughout the universe that celebrate the bonds of family and the gratitude for the nourishment of good crops, shelter, peace, but most of all, love. It was my favorite time of the year.
Besides the unbearable anticipation, the joy of preparation, all the decorating with the garlands of fellin branches, the placing of the testle-scented candles, the long process of brewing the moolt nectar, the gathering in the chilly forests of the ghost wood for the ceremonial fires that blazed for the five days, and the giving and receiving of gifts, the singing of songs, the games, and the coming and going of friends and cousins- besides all this, there was the actual feast.
The centerpiece was always roast thill, a big delicious game bird that roamed in abundance throughout the Dalibardadian Plains of Central Talax. The way my mother cooked this must have been learned from the gods; it liquefied in your mouth, like meat-flavored butter. She served it with swarthy swamp tubers, soral stuffing, kekkleberry sauce, whipped violet, creamed butterweed pie, pudder beans, and always the fruit compotes soaked in moolt. I used to eat as much of the compote as I could because it made me feel silly and giddy and then I'd make everyone laugh. And Talaxians love to laugh.
Roast Thill, Iced Neth, Wild-Hawk Marrow Patties, Clementine Shade Brisket, Spider Apple Pudding, Etten, Lost Crustacean, Mandelbrot, Wild Griggen, Gaborsti Stew
So we wander through the Delta Quadrant, crew of party guests and travelers from different planets, once strangers and enemies, now a family. And each and every day, well before the morning watch, I'' in my galley preparing the day'' mess and making sure all the individual needs of my crew, my family, are met. At night I dream of the forests on my little moon far away, now only memories: the sound of a distant bird on a chilly winter morning, the voice of a sister arousing me out of half-sleep, the touch of my mother. All gone now, gone as if they'd never been, except for the dreams that come at night. But somewhere in nowhere time is the beep of a ship's computer breaking into the reveries that can flood your mind after a long day. And although I want to crawl back to my quarters, another watch is standing down and will want to be fed. So I have promises to keep and light-years to go before I sleep.

Acknowledgements
There are many people I'd like to thank for their help in the writing of this book. The following people took the time to write down and give me their favorite personal recipe. It was very kind of them and I am very grateful. Mike Westmore, Brad Dourif, Kate Mulgrew, Armin Shimerman, Jennifer Lien, Jonathan Frakes, James Doohan, Leonard Nimoy, Bobby Tyson, Roxanne Dawson, Jeri Ryan, Marina Sirtis Lamper, Ruth Olsen, Fannie Cash, Bea Mercandante, Anastasia Cibelli, Mary Allis, Joan Schieck, Tim Russ, Rene Auberjonois, Alexander Siddig, Nana Visitor, Garrett Wang, Robert Beltran, Marta Wheeler, Robert Duncan McNeill, Dwight Schultz, Robert Picardo, Mary Sandy, Jack Potter, Angela Cody, Andy Robinson, and Armin Shimerman. [Yes Armin's name was mentioned twice, I didn't mistype.]
Allan Sims, the prop guru on Star Trek: Voyager, took time from his busy schedule and was our primary resource who explained the look of Star Trek cooking and presentation, and I thank Star Trek: Deep Space Nine's Joe Longo as well for his insight and advice. Both of these gentlemen define the look of Star Trek each and every week.
To Jeri Taylor, who very kindly allowed me a peek at her chapter on Neelix's past from the manuscript of her new book, I offer grateful thanks.
Also many people at Paramount deserve mention: Rick Berman, Michael Piller, Brannon Braga, Merri Howard, Dave Rossi, Maril Davis, Wendy Neuss, Joe Menosky, Ken Biller, Lisa Klink, Bryan Fuller, Lolita Fatjo, Janet Nemecek, Brad Yacobian, Michael DeMeritt, Adele Simmons, Jerry Fleck, Richard James, Rick Sternbach, Michael Okuda, Jim Mees, and Guy Vardaman. If I missed anyone, I love you and thank you, too! I send very special thanks to Dennis Boutsikaris, Tom Mardirosian, Diane Fitzpatrick, Scott Wheeler, and Bob Picardo.
Hal Bodner was very helpful. And Jill Poller. (Thank you Jill!) To my mom, whom I love and thank for her help, and to my dad, whose memory I will carry with me always.
To the cooks at Go Veggie in Los Angeles go my thanks for their help in creating kabocha squash Plomeek soup as well as to Jan Higgins in Louisiana for her scholarly explanation of creole cooking, and Diane Rosen, editor of Tea Talk.
To my wonderful editor at Pocket Books, Margaret Clark, who piloted this cookbook through many copyedits, photo crises, and design decisions go my adulation and gratitude as well as to Gina Centrillo, Kara Welsh, Scott Shannon, Donna O'Neill, Donna Ruvituso, and Erin Galligan.
To a terrific partner in prose, my co-author William J. Birnes, publisher of UFO Magazine, and to his lovely wife, author Nancy Hayfield. And finally to the very light of my life, my wife, Patty.

Reference: Cookbook
Alan Sims on Voyager Food Props
Star Trek food props are basically "monster food." But there are different types of monster food, from what the Klingons eat to what the Krenim put on a banquet table, so nothing can look alike. Klingon stuff must be different from what Neelix makes. Talaxian concoctions are a little bit more adorable, more interesting to look at, in the sense that they're more edible and have a pretty, instead of harsh, presentation. You make more pretty food in a sense because it's all organic. But the Klingon food- my interpretation is this stuff that when you look at it, you want to just retch. You just want to vomit looking at this stuff because it's living worms, serpents, and even organs that monsters eat. So the trick to making Klingon food look edible, yet at the same time totally revolting, is you mix and blend it. I use weird, odd things like octopus, huge squid tentacles, and very bizarre-looking dried Asian seafoods. Into this, I would mix edible items, things that you and I could stomach and find palatable, as opposed to a lot of these other revolting-looking things.
Blood Pies
Roxanne Dawson (B'Elanna Torres) is eating a mixture of pumpkin pie base, and I used turnip, the root part, sticking up straight to look fibrous and hairy like a root. Around the edges, around the whole ring of the pie and along the edges of the root, I would use a little red fruit-punch concentrate. You have to be careful with food dyes on the set of a production because you can have a bad experience, as we did on the set of Star Trek: The Next Generation. An actor put dyed food in his mouth and it discolored his tongue and mouth. He was "dead" on the set because the color doesn't come out that easily and we had to keep on shooting. How can you act when you have to go on to the next scene with a discoloration? So to avoid that, we use a fruit-punch concentrate that you can buy in a regular market. It provides color to the food you're preparing, but it's not a dye. If you're doing Star Trek parties at home, you should also avoid food dyes and use the colored fruit punches instead. You can also use cranberry-juice concentrate, or food-process fresh cranberries into a pulp. Anyway, the combination of real food and strange-looking seafood, like octopus or sea slug, is the trick to making anything Klingon.
You can get away with murder by using things like sea slugs or really bizarre foods, but you have to mix it with the more common stuff so it doesn't look recognizable. You have to blend it, so you can do a brown pasta or a little bit of chicken leg for effect.
Dried Fish or Other Sea Animals
Some of the most interesting things we use for decoration, even though they're completely edible, are dried fish or other sea creatures, Asian delicacies that perform on stage as if they were living animals frozen at the point of death. Because most dried fish that you can buy from an Asian deli or grocery store actually wear their death masks, they have an alien-creature-like aspect to them that is sensational for the camera. But, here's the fun part: you can use chopsticks, kabob sticks, or any kind of stick-like or, better, sword-like instrument to create a warrior arrangement of animals on a spit, their expressions reflecting the horror of a sudden death.
Using dried fish also has another benefit that I like very much. There is no odor. When you're dressing a set with food, you're working under hot lights as the director sets up his shot, even before the actors take their marks. If you've got food that gives of an odor, by the time the shot is ready, the actors are reacting to the smell of fish or other seafood instead of to what's in the script or the director's mind. Many directors understand that, but they still don't want the props to get in the way of the scene. That's why I try to build a food set with dried fish rather than raw foodstuffs whenever possible.
Using Wrapping Paper for Special FX
In the "Year of Hell" I had a huge table to dress with all kinds of dried, raw, pickled, and otherwise smoked or spiced foods. In one scene, I had to capture the look of dead, slug-like repulsive creatures that wouldn't conflict with any of the other repulsive creatures on the table. Yet the entire set had to look like a feast, made even more arcane because these were foods from cultures and homeworlds that were about to be wiped out by the evil Krenim time-shifters. What I found was that by using different kinds of transparent rainbow effect, that made the food look like it was either still alive or giving off a strange radiance. In particular, I used regular old oversized cucumbers on the table, wrapped them in plastic wrap, and lit them from an angle. Because the nature of the entire scene required that the camera focus on specific parts of the table as background, I was able to create lighting effects that made the regular old garden-variety cucumber look like a piece of a huge sea creature out of Jules Verne nightmare.
Beverages
Drinks are the easiest of all the Star Trek food. When we do drinks, we look for the color. We don't look for the texture, but only for the color that shows through the glass or bottle. For example, for one of the coffees we used on Voyager, which was supposed to be overdone and very old, we used a pudding, a thick chocolate pudding that glopped out instead of poured. When Neelix, in the episode "Unforgettable," is serving an almond pudding, we used a vanilla pudding and mix in vanilla and almond extract so it actually had a nut color. It's safe and edible. I can't use actual nuts or crackers on the set when something's being eaten because the food makes noise and gets in the way of dialogue.
That's another one of the challenges: we have to have silent food because crunches or snaps from people chewing crackers and nuts is like a wild sound that the microphone picks right up. And you can't have your actors chewing through a whole scene, which is what you have when they eat crackers or nuts. They have to get through lines while chewing and swallowing food. You can't do that, so it's another challenge.
You also can't use spices on the food to be eaten in a scene- hot spices, or any spices for that matter- because an actor can sneeze or have another reaction. There are also food allergies that you have to watch out for on the set. I always go up to the cast member a couple of days before shooting starts, and I see what the script says they are supposed to eat as it's written and ask if they have any allergies to this. For example, also in "Unforgettable" Chakotay's going to be eating ice cream. that's real simple, but maybe someone's allergic to vanilla or chocolate, or even is diabetic. You learn very quickly to address the concerns of food on a set.
Finger Vegetables
Buddha's fingers are vegetables we use because they can protrude out of any dish we make. No matter what episode we're shooting, whenever we have exotic food on a set, we arrange it with Buddha's fingers for the effect. These are Asian vegetables that actually look like fingers. Then there's star fruit, which you can slice and the slices look like stars. We also used ostrich eggs when we did "Basics" the show that we shot in Lone Pine.
Klingon Meat
Leg of lamb is the best food for Klingons, in fact for all the warrior-type characters on the show. Leg of lamb is the easiest and most barbaric-looking food because you can only eat it by grabbing hold of the bone and chewing off pieces of the flesh. Leg of lamb comes on good-sized bone. It's not like a chicken bone; it's a thick leg bones. For barbarian-type meat eaters- like those in "Heroes and Demons" or any warriors like the Klingons- the thicker the bone wrapped with meat, the more impressive it looks on the set. What we do for the visual effect is wrap the meat around the bone with the same type of string you use to sew up a turkey after you stuff it. You have to hold the meat on the bone because when you boil down the leg of lamb, it wants to fall off the bone. So we had to tie it down. The string turns the color of the meat and blends right in, so you can't see it, but it gives off a great visual effect. You just don't eat the string.
With Kazons, for example, we used simple, already-made packages of turkey legs- but the huge legs- you can find in all the markets. You can also go to a local deli for these. You look in the markets for the individually wrapped precooked turkey legs, the monster-sized ones. If you don't want it to look exactly like a turkey leg, because that's very recognizable, you simply shape the meat. You carve off  a bit here and there so it doesn't look so round. Poultry legs have a very distinct shape. If you change it by sculpting the meat, you get a terrific visual, but it's really just plain old turkey.
I would wrap some burlap or some cloth around the bone so they're not just grabbing the bone but something darker and thicker. That also helps to change the shape of the food prop into something more barbaric. Wrapping the turkey leg bone with burlap also works for me on the set because the actors are going to go right into a scene and the turkey can get very sticky and get all over other props like tricorders or phasers. Worse, I don't want a sticky piece of meat hanging off a combadge during a scene. So burlap keeps that from happening.
Garnishes
I use octopus legs whenever I can because you can arrange them on the edge of a dish to look like something crawling out of the food. I like to drape things over the plate because they look like they're growing and living. With Klingon food- best served live- you always want to make sure it looks like it's living. As long as it doesn't have to stay under the lights for a very long time, you're okay. Meat and fish, when they're under the lights take after take, can have a strong odor that gets in the way of a scene. But when you're doing five or so takes of the same setup, the food has to stay in exactly the same position.
If you use raw or live shellfish as garnishes or props, remember that they are highly perishable foods and spoil very rapidly. They can contaminate the foods they come in contact with, particularly if they're all on the same platter or dish. So please don't leave raw or live shellfish sitting on a table for any extended period of time. Keep them under refrigeration until ready to serve. If you are using them as a garnish, I suggest that you place the food you are serving in a clear bowl, and wrap the garnish around the bowl on another dish or platter, so that they do not touch! You can become sick from spoiled shellfish so extra care must be taken.
I also use regular tofu, sometimes premade fried tofu, for all my soy based dishes. I also like to use kashi for all my alien grain dishes. You can get kashi in any supermarket, follow the package directions, and combine it with something that gives it color and texture. Kashi is a great grain for any occasion.
What I also do, and what you can do if you're having a theme party, is have some type of bizarre garnish for the meat that hangs around the edge of the dish. Doesn't have to be a veggie; it can be an octopus leg. I did something really neat in the "A Matter of Honor" episode with Riker. My challenge was that you have nine or so dishes that are really much the same thing- Klingon food, serpent worms, organs, that sort of thing. But they had to look different for the camera. In one instance, pipius claw, I had to make it look totally bizarre. So I took regular old chicken feet, the kind you can get from a butcher shop. I cut out the middle toe. This thing looked just like a devil's claw. I stuck them up in a pie-like dish and nobody knew they were chicken feet.
When you are setting up your own dishes and presentations for parties, you also have to look at things you want to avoid. For example, when I was serving Michael Dorn on TNG, he hated the smell of the raw seafood, especially when we had an early morning call. But I had a Klingon dish and it was very revolting in its appearance. Didn't really smell that bad, but it looked awful, even though it had an edible base. Michael was very upset and said, "Alan, I told you, I can't be around this seafood. I hate the smell of fish." I said to him, "You know you're a Klingon and Klingons are supposed to be able to eat this stuff. You can handle this." And he laughed. It was funny even though he gave me a hard time.
Ten-Forward drinks and food were the primary presentation setups we did on TNG for food, outside of "A Matter of Honor" and all the Klingon dishes that Riker had to get accustomed to. We used all fruit juices; store shelf juices and some of the generic brands were used to fill the flasks.
One of the funniest challenges we had on the set of Next Generation was Data's dream segment wherein Deanna Troi was rolled out as a cake to be carved up and eaten. The irony about this shot and the special effects we had to use with the food is that Patrick Stewart, who directed the episode, didn't realize just how small the human torso is on a two-dimensional plane, especially Marina's. In proportion to the rest of a body, the torso is only a small area, but it looks bigger because of shoulders, neck, waist, and thighs. But when you just have a torso and nothing else, it's pretty small and makes for a weak visual. Marina Sirtis has a petite figure, so her torso is even smaller than that of someone who has a larger figure. So how to make her look like a cake?
I ordered a sheet cake, kind of a single-layer cake, from the bakery, in proportion to Marina's torso. And when we rolled her into the scene, she looked just like a square cupcake with a head sticking out. Patrick was completely dissatisfied with the look because the cake was so small. He wanted a bigger presentation for the camera- more torso cake. More cake means more cake, so we had to call all around to get more cake. Soon drivers were delivering sheet cakes to the set, and we expanded Troi's torso with a larger cake and a uniform made completely of buttercream icing. I had to run out to stores and get even more cake. But Patrick, setting up the shot from all angles, still felt the torso wasn't impressive enough. So we got more cake, because everything we did on camera looked like a dinky little thing. This was a dream sequence, not real life, so the torso had to be really oversized. Finally we got as much sponge cake as was in the entire Hollywood area and just piled it on. Then we re-iced the entire cake, taking special care to fill in all those jigsaw-puzzle seams where sponge cake met yellow cake met chocolate cake.
Marina had to lie there on what was really a magician's table with her whole body slung flat on a platform below the tray where the cake was sitting. That's what gave her what we called the "platter look." It was a really complicated arrangement because her head couldn't be straight up, but she couldn't be on the same level as the table or else she would look like a person covered in icing. She had to look like a head coming out of a cake that was really a Starfleet uniform. It was a totally constructed gag. That's the secret of how we did that shot of the Troi cake.
We tried to make Quark's into more than just a bar; it was a tavern just like you'd find in your old neighborhood, where people came to party and be together. But Quark's is more than just a neighborhood hangout; we wanted it also to be like a happening every night, with gambling, drinking, dabo girls, and holosuites. It's Miss Kitty's "Long Branch" in Dodge, a saloon in the old-time Western where cowboys, traders, and drifters, as well as the local male population, could find a cold glass of Andorian ale, a wheel of chance, and more than one hostess, in this case of some unknown species, willing to take their money in exchange for a bit of companionship and a friendly touch.
To make drink like the ones in Quark's, you'd use watered-down cola syrup, either Coke syrup or some other kind of cola syrup, to make the dark brandies. For the cognac, you'd lighten up the syrup with more water; for the brandies you'd keep it dark or nut-colored. For the things like Saurian brandy or Andorian ale, if you don't use fruit juice, you can use either cola syrup or lime soda syrup thinned out with as much water as you need to make it pour as if it's real brandy or liquor. So you have to experiment both with color and with how it pours, the actual texture of the drink.
I have also become really intrigued with the look of some of the new Gatorade flavors such as Riptide Rush, Glacier Freeze, Blue Raspberry, and the translucent white fruit drink Alpine Snow. Because translucent white, for example, isn't clear, but a light milky color, it allows you to shine various colors through it so as to get a refraction through the lens. When you dress the beverage even more by putting it in a glass, mug, or fluted cup with lots of different angles, you can play with the refraction by changing the angle of focus of the light source and even the colored gels over the lens. So by angle and color of lighting, most of which you can do at home with all kinds of party lights and Christmas lights, you can get a drink with a rainbow of colors.
Glacier Freeze also gives me the opportunity to play with color and reflection because the drink is a very light blue, just enough to look other-worldly, but not enough to create its own presence on the set. Because it's muted, I can use it in a variety of settings. It's also non-carbonated, so I can add sparkling water, ginger ale, or any carbonated drink- including Dr. Brown's CelRay- to change the color and activity inside the glass.
Some raw Asian seafoods, especially the sea slug, look almost like a big snake or giant eel. When they're served as part of an Asian dish, they are supposed to be cup up or sliced in large enough pieces to create an effect. I lay them out whole right around the dish for decoration and they look fabulous to dress the dish. I never tasted one, but I hear they're salty as hell.
Just as raw seafood and crawling-type Asian delicacies are used for presentation, so is the actual dish you serve the food in a part of your presentation. I use pewter or plated pewter look for all my Klingon setups on The Next Generation, and we use it on Deep Space Nine as well. Pewter, the heavy metal goblets, pitchers, and plates, all have that ancient barbaric-warrior look that defines the Klingon presentation. Use odd shapes like ovals, triangles, and rectangles. Don't go for the conventional round dishes, go for the ones in the out-of-the-way shapes that you can sometimes find in flea markets, secondhand stores, or swap meets. You can even lay these foods directly onto cloth- make sure they are clean, and that if the cloth is colored that the dyes will not leach into the food- that cover the plate.
If you do a Klingon wedding feat, drape cloth over plates. Go for metal plates that are completely clean and have no rust, clipping paint, lead paint, or enamel, dishes that you know are perfectly clean. Use mugs for the ale, metallic looking goblets or flagons for the bloodwine and Klingon ale. You can find strange or bizarre glassware in the Pier 1 stores. You can mix lemonade with sparkling water or sweeten iced coffee and mix with club soda for mead or brandy, or you can create a look with cranberry juice and water, but if you put it into a well-designed goblet from one of the restaurant supply or import/export stores, you have the makings of an alien table set. Develop the heavy, barbarian look. It's all part of the package. 
Flatware is also important. It may be expensive, and there's no easy way out of spending the money unless you can find odd-looking forks or rectangular spoons at a yard or garage sale or at a flea market. And don't think you always have to have forks; you can always poke things with long sticks or fondue forks. I recommend chopsticks as a really inexpensive way to get a kabob look for all barbarian feats; you can pick them up free from the sushi counters or Asian food counters at the big supermarkets. Grab a handful every time you go and keep them for your parties.
Let your imagination create the meal, the look, the entire attitude. In an episode like Worf's wedding we had to make the food look different with garnishes, vegetarian or asahimi. Vegetables are an inexpensive way to express your alien imagination. I like to use things like endive or fennel or chard. I use different types of herbs like chives or rosemary leaves. I use tarragon as an accent. Rosemary is great because t looks alien. But stay away from the conventional pasta shapes like rotini or rigatoni because they're at every restaurant and everyone serves them. You can create your own alien dishes by thinking of what you don't see every day on a table. Rice noodles look odd and they can replace pasta. Udon noodles are good, of course, because they look like gagh. Soba noodles also look unconventional. Another great prop food for Klingons and maybe other alien cultures as well is tongue. Tongue, a nice, big pickled tongue, which you get from a butcher, is perfect because when you arrange it on a dish that's too small, it looks like it's moving, crawling off the plate. If you arrange an oversized tongue on an undersized plate full of dark lentils, you have the perfect Klingon, Ferengi, Romulan, or even Cardassian dish, and you can eat it and enjoy it.
I'll tell you something else that always works well as an alien food- borscht, basic bottles borscht from the store. It's bright red and beety, so it has chunks of stuff in it. You can throw in anything and it's immediately dyed red in natural beet dye. You have to be careful, though, because the red beet dye tends to stain. Borscht is the perfect alien soup. If you add thick-curd cottage cheese, you get Klingon corpuscles.
Ferengi food is different; it's more ornamental and we don't have to make real food. For the Ferengi we like to use straight-out props.
Food props by Joe Longo
For an interesting variation of gagh, we put baby crabs in the noodles. These look just like big cockroaches. You can also use oyster crabs. I have heard that as long as you have a dish of butter alongside, you can eat the oyster crabs live, just like clams. This would really be eating Klingon style.
Blood pie for me is a mixture of cranberry juice and cranberries crushed in a blender, and I mix it with my yamok sauce for my Cardassian friends. 
I also like to make leg of lamb and cover it with my yamok sauce. It's an odd taste- the combination of Karo syrup, Worcestershire, and sometimes pureed cranberries on lamb- but it works and makes a great effect.
Bloodwine is a composition of cranberries in a fruit-drink base like cherry punch.
For the Ferengi food, which is different, we use the baby crabs or oyster crabs, we use lots of sea slugs cut into different lengths, and we use fresh, living mealworms or night crawlers as props.
Information provided by:
Star Trek Cookbook, www.simonsays.com/st, @1999 Pocket Books, Ethan Phillips and William J. Birnes
