FOOD: Crab-Stuffed Salmon

Lieutenant Barclay was certainly one of the more colorful figures on the Enterprise. Between his adventures on the holodeck as one of the Earth's three musketeers to his strange paranoia about the transporter, Barclay was at the center of any mystery where his name was mentioned. He was La Forge's project for a while, as Geordi tried to make him into an assertive Starfleet officer. Then he became the protege of Commander Troi, who tried to help his paranoia. But maybe it was Earth scientist Zefram Cochrane who finally brought Barclay around. Nothing helps the ego like a little hero worship.
For the purists out there, this is planked salmon, fish baked on a plank. You can buy an inexpensive cedar plank for $10 to $25 from a home and kitchen store like Williams Sonoma, or you can find one in many of the kitchen goodies catalogues on the internet, and the results you'll get are indescribably delicious. Once you have the plank, you will need these ingredients:

2 pounds salmon fillet
1 pound crabmeat
6 cloves garlic, crushed
1/3 cup virgin olive oil
2 tablespoon mayonnaise
1 1/2 teaspoons Old Bay seasoning
1 1/2 tablespoons celery seed
1/4 cup chopped rosemary
salt and pepper to taste

First you need to "season" your plank. Using a paper towel, cover the top, bottom, and sides of the plank with some of the olive oil and place it in a cold oven. [I would think that using a Pam spray would also work] Then turn the oven to 350 degrees. Remove all shell pieces from the crabmeat, and combine the crab with mayonnaise, celery seed, Old Bay, and pepper in a large mixing bowl, and set aside to let the flavors set. Next, using your favorite sharp-bladed murder weapon, carve a pocket along the length of the salmon fillet, making sure not to break through to the other side. Once you have your pocket, press half of the garlic into the sides of the opening to coat the inside of the salmon fillet. Now, stuff the opening with crab, and when it is completely stuffed, press the sides of the fillet together as firmly as you can to keep them closed. Mix remaining olive oil, rosemary, salt, and remaining garlic and rub on the outside of the salmon and when it is as shiny as a mackerel in the moonlight, it's ready for the oven.
Using oven mitts, remove the hot plank from the oven, place the salmon on it skin down, and return it to the oven for approximately 30 minutes, when you'll check to make sure the salmon is flaky. That means it's done. Remove the salmon and serve directly from the plank. This is wonderful with wild rice and roasted red and green peppers, a crackling white Frascati or Verdicchio, or maybe seven a light Kirin beer. Serves four.

Reference:
This recipe was submitted by Dwight Schultz.
Information provided by:
Star Trek Cookbook, www.simonsays.com/st, @1999 Pocket Books, Ethan Phillips, William J. Birnes
