FOOD: fricandeau stew

A stew made with veal that has been larded or braised (pronounced "FRICK-ahn-doe"). It's one of O'Brien's favorite meals but not Keiko's, and the unwitting replicant O'Brien is suspicious when she prepares it for him.
Neelix- " This version of fricandeau of veal is Mile's favorite dish on Deep Space Nine because Chief O'Brien loves veal any way he can get it, especially when it's larded over with pork and braised until all it's juices are sealed nice and tight inside and then dredged in flour and stewed with hearty red-skinned potatoes with the skins on, some celery, an onion, and a couple of tomatoes to flavor the gravy. I like to spice it u with some garlic, a handful of whole cloves, and a bay leaf, but these are optional and totally nontraditional. This is an Earth dish that you can make yourself, but if you want it to be a true fricandeau, you have to ask your butcher to give you the "cushion" of the veal, the meaty portion cut from the thickest part of the leg.
2 pounds veal, boned
1/4 pound salt pork, fatback, or thick-cut bacon, cubed
1/2 cup (1 stick) butter
2 tablespoons butter, melted
5 medium red-skin potatoes, thickly cubed
1 large onion, chopped
5 stalks celery with leaves, chopped
4 medium tomatoes, chopped
1/2 cup all-purpose flour
2 cloves garlic, whole
4 cloves garlic, sliced
3 or 4 whole cloves (optional)
1 bay leaf (optional)
salt and pepper to taste

Preheat oven to 350 degrees. Wash the veal and cut 1/4 inch slits into the flesh. Into these slits press in pieces of your fatback, salt pork, or the fatty portions of the bacon, and wipe down the entire piece of meat with 2 cloves garlic. Now stick the whole cloves into the meat, if you chose. Salt and pepper the meat and sew the slit where the bone was removed together, along with the slits into which you inserted the pork lard. You can also use toothpicks.
Place a roasting-pan rack in a pan, making sure the pan beneath is deep enough to catch the drippings, for the gravy you'll need 

Reference:
Information provided by:
The Continuum, www.startrek.com, @2002 2006 CBS Studios, Paramount Pictures
The Encyclopedia, www.simonsays.com/st, @1997 Pocket Books, Michael & Denise Okuda, Debbie Mirek
The Cookbook, www.simonsays.com/st, @1999 Pocket Books, Ethan Phillips, William J. Birnes
