FOOD: Gramilian sand peas

A largely unknown vegetable in 2369 that, when eaten as a snack, inhibits secretion of the salivary glands while drying out tongue tissues - in effect, causing a thirst in the consumer. The peas and their effect soon become better know: Pel suggests that Quark begin stocking them as a bar snack to make his customers order more drinks. Bashir once tried to learn to flick them off his wrist into his mouth, a trick taught him by O'Brien, when the Klingons were "too quiet" in Quark's on the eve of their Cardassian invasion. 
Neelix- "Any good bartender knows that whatever encourages his patrons to drink is good for business. That's why Quark serves lokar beans and Gramilian sand peas to all his customers; they're hot and sweet and get people drinking. If you want to make these snacks instead of buying red-hot spiced peanuts or honey-toasted beer nuts at your package store or supermarket, you can. Both are roasted on a flat baking sheet in your oven at 350 degrees for 15 minutes. You can use your electric toaster oven, too. For lokar beans, start with dry-roasted peanuts, or shell your own roasted peanuts, and first roll them in honey and then dust them with coarse-milled salt. Grease a flat baking pan and spread out the peanuts. Roast for 15 minutes and then let them cool.
Hot spiced peanuts are just that. Take dry-roasted peanuts and stir them through a mixture of melted butter and hot Tabasco sauce, remove to a separate plate and sprinkle the whole thing with salt. For a milder peanut, use green Tabasco sauce. The more Tabasco or hot pepper sauce you use, the hotter the peanuts, so you'll have to experiment. I'd start gradually, because too much hot pepper sauce can actually burn the inside of your mouth. Not even the coldest German brew will wash down burning pepper sauce, hence the need for care. Be very careful with this recipe, and keep it away from children. Also, make sure you wash your hands after mixing up these nuts, and don't rub your eyes before you do. When you've coated all the peanuts, roast them in an oven at 350 degrees for 15 minutes. You can also heat them in your microwave oven for 2 to 3 minutes. Eat these peanuts only a few at a time because they're quite literally, dynamite.

Reference: Rules of Acquisition 
Information provided by:
The Continuum, www.startrek.com, @2002 2006 CBS Studios, Paramount Pictures
The Cookbook, www.simonsays.com/st, @1999 Pocket Books, Ethan Phillips, William J. Birnes
