FOOD: Jimbalian Fudge Cake

Twice onboard Voyager we have celebrated Kes' birthday, and I baked a Jimbalian fudge cake for each occasion. It's not an easy cake to do; a shell of crushed kabeebee nuts surrounds the cake. These nuts come from the tneth moon of Zadon. It's a huge commitment to get there, taking several lifetimes to travel. As far as I know, the only life-form who's ever made it there and back was George Burns. There are two versions of the cake. The first takes nine years to bake; if you're planning to serve this to an Ocampan friend, put it in the oven while they''e still in the womb, and be prepared to serve it at the funeral luncheon! The other version is the one I served on Voyager, and it's Kes' favorite. Like I said, it is a tough cake to make, but I believe one should go to any length to please one's sweetheart.
The easiest way to make a good fudge cake is to use one of the many packaged mixes. However, for those of you die-hard enough to make the real Jimbalian fudge cake, here goes:

2 cups cake flour
2 eggs, unbeaten
1 1/3 cups granulated sugar
1 cup milk
1/2 cup shortening
1 teaspoon baking soda
4 1-ounce squares unsweetened baking chocolate, melted
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
1/2 teaspoon salt

FROSTING
3 1-ounce squares unsweetened baking chocolate
2 3/4 cups confectioners' sugar
7 tablespoons light cream
1/4 cup (1/2 stick) butter
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
1/2 teaspoon salt

Preheat oven to 350 degrees and slowly melt the chocolate squares in a small saucepan, or better, in a double boiler. Combine, by sifting if you really want to be old-fashioned, the flour, baking soda, and salt into a mixing bowl. Spoon your solid shortening into a separate bowl along with the sugar, and beat vigorously until the mixture is soft and fluffy. Now add the eggs one at a time, beating after each egg. Add the melted chocolate and blend thoroughly. Now add a measure of your flour mixture, alternating with a measure of milk, until the batter is completely blended. Finally, add the vanilla. Grease 2 9-inch round cake pans and line the bottom with greased wax paper. Spoon the batter into the pans, and bake for 30 minutes. Test for doneness by pressing down lightly on the tops of the cake layers after 30 minutes. If the tops spring back, the cake's done. Remove from oven and let cool.
For extra-rich chocolate frosting, melt the chocolate with the butter in a saucepan or in a double boiler. Now, in the same pan, blend the mixture with 2 cups confectioners' sugar, cream, and salt, beating it until it's smooth and creamy. Cook the chocolate mixture over low heat and keep stirring until it begins to bubble at the edges. Now remove from heat and add the vanilla extract and 3/4 cup sugar while you slowly beat. Allow to cool while you beat and alternately stir until it's thick enough to spread. 
After your cake has cooled, remove from cake pans and spread with fudge frosting.

Reference:
We didn't bake this ourselves. We went to Hanson's Cakes in L.A.. they have natural ingredients and they get the food right to the set.
Information provided by:
Star Trek Cookbook, www.simonsays.com/st, @1999 Pocket Books, Ethan Phillips, William J. Birnes
