FOOD: Mushroom Soup

Soup dish made with popular edible fungi. 
Several versions are available in the Federation replication database, including a "Wild Mushroom" variety.
Commander Chakotay's favorite was made by Crewman Seska, but he's angered that she broke into the food reserves after Neelix wouldn't so she could prepare it her way. 
You may remember Chakotay's having mentioned on more than one occasion that mushroom soup was one of his favorite dishes. I remember it well because of the way he looked at me as if to say, "I want mushroom soup!" On Voyager, what the first officer wants, the first officer gets. Thankfully for an overworked and sometimes thoroughly under-appreciated galley chef like me, mushrooms are omniversal, found virtually everywhere there is life. Kes grew them in the hydroponic garden, and I harvest them from the surface of any planet we set foot on. I especially love cross-contaminating Talaxian pigweed shallots that grow along the Riparian corridors of Heelox, the widest river on Talax, with Nezu candy-tufted mud fungus before I cook them in a pan with Bolian tingle butter. However, you'll use the following ingredients:

2 pounds mushrooms, as fresh as you can get them
3 small red-skin potatoes or 1 large peeled russet potato
1 small Spanish onion
1 stalk celery, chopped, or 1 cup frozen finely diced celery
1/4 cup finely diced green bell pepper
1 1/2 cups cold water
1 teaspoon salt
1 pinch coarsely ground black pepper
1 pinch thyme or rosemary
1/4 pound (1 cup) butter
3 cups whole milk
1 cup cream (heavy or light)
green scallions as a garnish

First, scrub the mushrooms to make sure they're clean. You know what mushrooms grow in, and it's not something you want floating on the surface of the soup. Just assume you're preparing this for Commander Chakotay and the unsmiling Mr. Tuvok, and you'll scrub those fungi until they shine like the Rigelian moons. Scrub the potatoes also. Then slice the mushrooms, potatoes, and onion as thinly as you can. The art to making this soup is to slice everything- the potatoes, the onion, the pepper, and especially the mushrooms- very thin. Set aside the sliced potatoes and mushrooms, and dice the sliced onion and pepper along with the celery until they're finely chopped.
Next, in a large saucepan, cook the onion and peppers in a 1/2 stick of butter without burning them, until they are soft and the onion is clear. Then stir in the potatoes and celery, along with a pinch of salt, and add the remaining 1/2 stick of butter. When the potatoes feel soft to the spoon and the mixture is almost soupy, add the water and mushrooms and continue to cook the mixture for about 20 minutes at a low simmer.
Let the mixture then cool for about 10 minutes; process it in a blender or food processor on high until it's completely pureed. Now, stir in the milk and cream, and cook the soup for another 45 minutes to 1 hour over very low heat. When it's ready to serve, I garnish it with scallions I pick right out of the airponics garden and signal Commander Chakotay. He doesn't even bother to acknowledge. Just shows up with his favorite spoon at the ready. Serves 4 to 6 depending on the size of the serving.

Wild Mushroom

1 pound assorted mushrooms (portobello, cremini, button, shiitake, oyster, chanterelle, and others), chopped into bite-sized pieces
1 large russet potato, diced into 1/2-pieces
1 large onion, halved and sliced
1 1/2 to 2 tablespoons olive oil (more if needed)
1 quart chicken stock, defatted
1 large cloved garlic, minced
salt and pepper to taste

Saute mushrooms, onions, and garlic over medium heat in olive oil until tender. You should saute the firmer mushrooms first, adding the more delicate ones only at the end. Add remaining ingredients and simmer over medium-low heat until potatoes are tender, about 20 minutes. Taste to adjust seasonings and serve hot with crusty bread. Serves four.

Reference:
The Wild Mushroom variety was created by Jeri Ryan. "This soup tastes terrific (my number-one priority) and is also low in fat (my costume's number-one priority). The key is to use as many different varieties of mushroom as possible.
Information provided by:
The Continuum, www.startrek.com, @2002 2006 CBS Studios, Paramount Pictures
The Cookbook, www.simonsays.com/st, @1999 Pocket Books, Ethan Phillips, William J. Birnes
