FOOD: Rokeg blood pie

A Klingon dish Commander William Riker enjoyed aboard the I.K.S. Pagh. It was one of the Klingon dishes - apparently Lieutenant Worf's favorite - that Helena Rozhenko learned to prepare for her foster Klingon son. 
Blood pie is a staple among the Klingons. As shocking as it is when you open up the pastry shell and see the wriggling entrails and organs, it's a dish that Klingons learn to love from the time they're little Klingonettes. Lieutenant B'Elanna Torres is no exception, even though she was half human and separated from her Klingon forebearers by an entire quadrant. So Neelix learned to make the dish from the Starfleet logs and prepared my own creation specifically for B'Elanna. 

1 8-ounce can cherry pie filling
1 pound fresh or frozen cranberries (defrosted)
1 cup unfiltered cranberry juice
1/2 cup red grape juice
1/2 cup sugar
1 packaged two-crust pastry or refrigerator pie pastry

Preheat oven to 350 degrees. Blend on low, in a blender or food processor, or use your hand electric mixer to pulp the cranberries, and in a saucepan combine them with cherry filling, grape juice, cranberry juice, and sugar. Bring to a slow boil on low heat, and simmer for 15 minutes while you grease a pie pan and spread out the pie pastry in it. Pour blood pie ingredients into the pie shell, cover with the top pastry crust, moisten edges with water, and crimp edges together. Pierce the crust with you fork to ventilate, and bake for 45 minutes or until crust just begins to turn golden and flakes in your hand. Serve red, runny, and piping hot.

Unlike my own blood pie, a lighter, sweeter, version of the homeworld recipe that I prepare for B'Elanna, Mrs. Rozhenko's blood pie is heavy and meaty. It's especially made for growing Klingon boys who need their iron. You can make a version of what Mrs. Rozhenko served Worf by using veal kidneys and top-round or sirloin beef roast baked into a pie pastry with lots of borwn gravy made from the blood. It's an intense meat pastry, not to be served to the squeamish, but tasty.

2 pounds top-round or sirloin beef roast
1 pound veal kidneys
2 cups beef gravy or 2 cups beef stew with veggies removed
1 homemade or store-bought unsweetened pastry pie crust
12 ounces dark beer
4 cloves garlic
2 cups flour
1/8 teaspoon garlic salt
1/4 teaspoon celery seed
1/4 cup ( 1/2 stick) salted butter, melted
Tabasco sauce, cayenne pepper, and/or paprika to taste

Preheat oven to 375 degrees, and skin, then wash kidneys. Slice them very thin and set aside while you slice the beef roast very thin as well. Save any blood. Saute the kidneys very briefly in a skillet with melted butter until they just begin to turn color, about 2 minutes. Set aside. Mix flour, garlic salt, and celery seed together. Roll the beef in the seasoned flour. Now in a greased deep baking pan arrange your beef and kidney slices in any order you like, making sure to mix them so the flavors blend. Cover with thick brown gravy or stew stock and any blood you've reserved. Pour in your bottle of beer. Cover the pan with aluminum foil and bake for 2 hours at 375 degrees. Remove from oven, let pan cool slightly, and replace the aluminum foil with your pastry crust. Raise the oven heat to 400 degrees. Return pie to oven and cook for another 15 minutes, just enough to brown the crust. Serve with Klingon bloodwine or ale. Serves approximately six.

Reference: A Matter of Honor 
Information provided by:
The Continuum, www.startrek.com, @2002 2006 CBS Studios, Paramount Pictures
The Cookbook, www.simonsays.com/st, @1999 Pocket Books, Ethan Phillips, William J. Birnes
