FOOD: Skull Stew with Tripe

Not for the fainthearted, this dish is exactly what is says it is: a skull with the meat stewed off and served on a nice bed of entrails. Sounds appetizing? It did to me when I was Klingon for those few days on Holodeck 2. Of course, les petits fours also tantalized my taste buds when I was delivering food for Kathrine, leader of the French Underground on Holodeck 1 during the Hirogen invasion. Before the Khitomer Accords and the alliance between the Federation and the Klingon Empire, skull stew was once thought of as only a myth. If you're up for this, you can make it at home if you prepare it very carefully and slowly. Don't worry, there's always enough skull stew to go around, so tell your guests to enjoy it in moderation and them come back for seconds.
1 medium-to-large sized calf's skull
1 - 2 pounds honeycomb tripe
1 medium onion, chopped
1 small green bell pepper, chopped
4 small tomatoes, chopped, (about 8 ounces)
1/2 pound mushrooms, chopped (optional)
1 tablespoon vegetable oil
1/2 cup cream
2 eggs
2 tablespoon butter, melted
3 tablespoons flour
1 tablespoon cooking oil
2 beef bouillon cubes
2 tablespoons dry sherry
1/2 teaspoon salt
black pepper, cayenne pepper, and Tabasco to taste
You will prepare the tripe and the calf's head seperately in 2 stew pots and then combine them about 1/2 hour before the stew's done. Begin by washing and cleaning the calf's head, removing the brains and blood. then cover with water and bring to a boil; remove the surface scum, cover with lid, reduce heat, and continue boiling for at least 2 hours until the cheek meat is tender. After you've purchased it from a supermarket, chances are the blood vessels will already have been removed, but give it a good cleaning nevertheless. Chop the tripe into 2 or 3 long peices. cover with water in a 6-8 quart pot, cover, and set it to boil. Reduce to simer for about 2 hours or until it is tender. When the tripe is tender, drain it and then bake it in a deep pan at 350 degrees for about 30 minutes, then set it aside.
When the calf's head cheek meat is tender, remove head from pot and let cool. When it is sufficiently cooled, cut the cheek meat away from the bone, cube, and set aside. Wash and save the skull. In a separate baking dish, combine the melted butter and 2 tablespoons flour with just enough water to make a thick paste. Season this with the salt, peppers and Tabasco, and the cubed cheek meat, and stir in the beef bouillon. Heat in oven with tripe.
Now in a medium skillet brown the onion and bell pepper (and optional mushrooms) in oil, and then add the tomatoes and heat until they begin to dissolve. Remove the tripe from the oven when done and the calf's head stew. Add the vegetable mixture to the tripe and return to oven for about 10 minutes. Mix the eggs and cream together and add to the calf's head stew. Return stew to oven. When the ten minutes are up, remove the tripe from its own cooking pan. Set aside. Remove the calf's head stew. Combine the tripe sauce with the calf's head stew and return to oven for 5 more minutes. Remove and stir in the cooking sherry.
Place the calf's skull in the center of a large, large serving bowl and over it pour the combined stew mixture. Now drape and arrange the peices of the tripe around the skull and dish. Serve in a ceremonial manner while chanting Klingon songs of battle victory. No one will ever forget this meal. Serves 6 to 8.

Reference: The Killing Game
Information provided by:
The Encyclopedia, www.simonsays.com/st, @1997 Pocket Books, Michael & Denise Okuda, Debbie Mirek
The Cookbook, www.simonsays.com/st, @1999 Pocket Books, Ethan Phillips, William J. Birnes

