FOOD: Slug Liver

Ferengi do share with humans a perverse taste for a variety of little shelled creatures who creep upon the surface of the earth or beneath the sea, processing through their bodies any toxins and poisons that civilized society can manufacture or throw off as a by-product of a manufacturing process. It is simply astounding what chemicals human society can generate and even more astounding what creatures they eat that process these toxins. However, far be it from me to judge, given what I've served up to our resident half-Klingon during my tour of duty in Voyager's galley. 
The closest animals to slugs, whose livers the Ferengi simply adore, are snails, which can be prepared raw right out of the shells, as it were, or, for those people who cannot find the time to pick through the day's catch at the local fish market, come canned or prepackaged. I suggest the latter because snails are a tricky deal and are better left to the pros. My recipe calls for canned snails cooked in a nice bouillon or consommé of beef or chicken with bay leaf and lots of pickling spice, served with a hearty Rhombolian butter which, on Earth, is called "snail butter."
8 ounces beef consomme
1 cup sherry or white wine
4-6 ounces snails, cleaned, cooked, and shelled
1 bay leaf
1 tablespoon pickling spice
1-3 cloves garlic, crushed
BUTTER
1 cup butter, melted
1/2 cup green onions (scallions), finely chopped
4 cloves garlic, chopped
1 teaspoon celery powder, or minced celery leaves
Combine the consomme and sherry or wine and bring to a boil. Add bay leaf, pickling spice, and crushed garlic to taste. Stir and reduce to simmer. Wash snails thoroughly, and then add them to the broth and let simmer for about 5 minutes. Remove, drain, and serve with the butter sauce. Melt the sticks of butter and add the green onions, celery, and garlic until all ingredients are thoroughly combined and blended. Serves 4.

Reference:
Information provided by:
ST Cookbook, www.simonsays.com/st, @1999 Pocket Books, Ethan Phillips, William J. Birnes
