FOOD: Spore Pie

Here's a pastry dish that's right from Quark's replicator. This spore pie is easy to make and can be reheated as a leftover. the spores I'd recommend- the nonreplicator version- are fresh mushrooms that you can bake into a custard pie filling. Basically, this is a mushroom quiche, which, when done right, is a magnificent dish for a light lunch, a weekend breakfast, or a wonderful snack. You can make this with or without bacon.
Traditionally, a mushroom quiche Lorraine is a bacon quiche. For Ferengi spore pie, I suggest you leave the bacon out. No matter how you prepare it, the trick is to add nice purple cabbage to the quiche as a garnish for both texture and flavor.
1 pastry shell
1 pound mushrooms, cleaned, trimmed, and sliced
6 ounces Gruyere cheese, (Swiss Knight is perfect) shredded
6 ounces Swiss cheese, sliced
1 clove garlic, sliced thin
2 cups whole milk or half-and-half
3 eggs
1/2 cup butter
1/2 teaspoon salt
1/4 teaspoon nutmeg
1 pinch parsley
pepper to taste
1/2 cup small red cabbage, shredded, as a garnish
Preheat over to 450 degrees, and arrange your pastry shell in a 9-inch pie tin. Wash, trim the ends, and slice the mushrooms, then saute them in the butter and garlic in a medium skillet. After the mushrooms are nice and soft, shred the Gruyere cheese and cut the Swiss into long strips and set aside. Scald the milk. Beat the eggs and add the salt, nutmeg, and pepper. Stir in the milk. Layer the mushrooms in the pie shell, cover with both cheeses, and pour in the egg mixture. Bake at 450 degrees for 10 minutes; reduce heat to 350 degrees and bake for another 15 minutes; remove from oven and sprinkle on the parsley, then bake for an additional 10 minutes. During the final 10 minutes, wash the cabbage and shred into small strips, which you will use as a garnish for the completed servings of quiche to your guests. Serves 4 to 6.

Reference:
Information provided by:
ST Cookbook, www.simonsays.com/st, @1999 Pocket Books, Ethan Phillips, William J. Birnes

