FOOD: Steamed Chadre Kab

This was Seven of Nine's first meal on Voyager, so I steamed her the most digestible foods in the galaxy. Steaming vegetables instead of boiling them is a healthy, tasty way of cooking. Steaming also makes them easier on the digestive system, which is especially important if you're a Borg recently freed from the collective. You can also be very clever about steaming vegetables in paprika with a little salt and butter so that it has a flavor that doesn't overpower the freshness of the veggies. As Data's favorite hero, Sherlock Holmes, once said when asked by his medical sidekick and confidant about the importance of steaming, "It's alimentary, my dear Watson."

1 butternut or acorn squash, steamed and mashed

Do not add salt or pepper, as these would make it too pungent. Pile squash onto plate as efficiently as possible.

Seven Chadre special

7 carrots
7 stalks celery
7 baby asparagus
7 small red potatoes
2 cups chopped cabbage
1 small onion
1 cup chopped green beans
1/8 cup (1/4 stick) butter (completely optional)
1/8 teaspoon plain salt or celery salt (optional)
pepper or paprika to taste

You will need a vegetable steamer, which consists of a large pot with a tightly sealed cover and a steamer rack. Follow the instructions that come with your vegetable steamer. If you don't have a steamer, you can improvise one yourself by fitting a metal- not metal-and-plastic- colander inside a large stew pot. The colander's feet or pedestal must be tall enough to keep the vegetables above the boiling water. The trick is to make sure the lid fits nice and tight, or else the steam escapes, and that's what you don't want.
Prepare the potatoes separately; wash thoroughly, then either boil then until just before they are soft or microwave them on high for about 10 minutes, and the set aside. You'll add them to the steamer later.
Bring the water in your steamer to a high boil while you wash the rest of the vegetables and cut them into bite-sized chunks. Set veggies on the steamer rack, and very carefully, place in the pot over the boiling water. Reduce heat a tad and cover. Steam for about 10 minutes; then, very carefully again, remove the cover and add the potatoes, and pepper or paprika to taste.
Replace the cover and cook for about another 5 minutes. Then remove the cover and test for tenderness. When you are happy with the tenderness of the vegetables, serve with butter (optional) and maybe some more paprika. this dish easily serves 4, but can be expanded to satisfy an entire collective, or uncollective as the case may be, of newly liberated Borg.

Reference: Caretaker
This is my [Jeri Ryan] personal variation of a dish I invented for Seven [of Nine]. It is simple. You will assimilate it.
Information provided by:
Star Trek Cookbook, www.simonsays.com/st, @1999 Pocket Books, Ethan Phillips, William J. Birnes
