FOOD: Terran Pasta with Clam Sauce

I would also like at this time to tank Harry for being the only member out of the entire crew who professed a liking for pleeka rind and grub meal! He confessed this to Tom right before I passed out in the galley from Mylean DNA poisoning. I prepare this with the collagen fibers from the pleeka, a small Olipian reptile, and gooboo grubs, which nest in the hair of mature Alfarians. On Earth, spaghetti with clam sauces comes close. You have your choice of red or white clam sauce. Red is a tad more spicy because of the pepper; white is more tangy because of the requisite amount of garlic you need to add.

Pasta:
1 16-ounce package #9 spaghetti or linguini
8 cups water
4 cloves garlic, crushed in a garlic press
1 tablespoon olive oil

While the clam sauce is cooking, boil the pasta in a large saucepan until soft enough to bite into it, but still firm, drain, crush four cloves of garlic into the pasta and stir, pour olive oil onto the pasta, stir through, and set aside until you are ready to add the clam sauce.

White Sauce:
2 dozen shucked sliced raw littlneck clams or 3 cups chucked sliced raw chowder clams
8 cloves garlic, thinly sliced
1/4 cup olive oil
2 teaspoons oregano
1 teaspoon dried parsley
salt and pepper to taste

In a skillet, saute garlic cloves in the olive oil, but don't let them burn. Add the clams and simmer gently until they soften to the touch. Add the oregano and parsley and salt and pepper. Stir the clam sauce until all the flavors have blended, pour over the pasta, and compeltely stir through. Serves four.

Red Sauce:
2 dozen shucked sliced raw littleneck clams or 3 cups shucked sliced raw chowder clams
8 Italian plum tomatoes
6 cloves garlic, thinly sliced
1/2 cup olive oil
1/4 cup red wine
3 teaspoons oregano
2 teaspoons crushed red pepper
1 teaspoon dried parsley
1/2 teaspoon sugar
salt and pepper to taste

In 1 tablespoon of olive oil, saute tomatoes with 4 of the garlic cloves. After the tomatoes have cooked into a liquid, add the sugar, wine, pepper, oregano, and parsley; then cover and simmer slowly for at least 1 hour.
Now, using the remaining 2 sliced garlic cloves, prepare the clams as you did in the recipe for white clam sauce above. When the clams are ready, mix them into the tomato sauce and simmer for another 1/2 hour. Then pour some of the red clam sauce over the spaghetti and stir through. Leave enough clam sauce for your guests to add their own, as with the recipe for while clam sauce. Serves four.

Reference:
Information provided by:
Star Trek Cookbook, www.simonsays.com/st, @1999 Pocket Books, Ethan Phillips, William J. Birnes

