FOOD: torte, icoberry

A dessert using icoberries, programmed into DS9's replicators. Sisko once ordered one with a raktajino; Jake suggested it to the Skreean refugee teenager Tumak at the Replimat as a peace offering. 
Neelix- "Another one of the favorite desserts from Quark's is this bery delight. Icoberries are sweet as well as pungent, and if you overindulge, you can get an allergic reaction. The straight icoberry juice is so strong that when Jadzia Daz tried some, her spots began to itch. It seemed the juice went through her Trill system to rapidly it overloaded its delicate balance. I'm told many races have negative reactions to icoberries. Not so with humans.
Quark's version of this torte has a strange rectangular shape, which you can make in your own kitchen, after you let the torte itself cool. Of course you can't find icoberries at any street-corner market, but you can use red raspberries, so I've included an alternative version with the sometime more popular strawberry. Remember, also, that real tortes are made with almonds instead of flour. You have to grind the almonds, or buy them finely ground at the store, and mix them with ground bread crumbs for the cake. This recipe's tricky, but it's worth the effort.
1 cup ground almonds
1/2 cup honey-whole wheat bread crumbs, stale
6 eggs, separated
1 cup light brown sugar
2 tablespoons cinnamon (optional)
1/2 teaspoon orange extract or 1 teaspoon orange juice
1/2 teaspoon lemon extract or 1 teaspoon lemon juice
1 cup (or more) raspberry or strawberry preserves
1/3 cup confectioner's sugar
1 cup heavy cream, whipped or 2 cups of store bought whipped cream
Preheat oven to 350 degrees. Traditionalists will tell you to use a greased circular baking pan with a spring loaded removable rim. there's a reason for this; the torte is so delicate that you can't remove it from a normal pie tin or cake pan without breaking it. The spring form pan lets you remove the ring and let the torte cool on the pan bottom. When it's cool, you can trim it into the rectangular shape served at Quark's.
With a hand mixer, beat the brown sugar into the egg yolks until the result is creamy, add the cinnamon if desired during this step. Add the orange and lemon extracts or juice; keep beating so that it blends thoroughly. Now add the ground almonds and bread crumbs, and keep beating. Set aside and whip the egg whites in a separate bowl, until the begin to stiffen. Then stir them into the almond torte mixture until they are blended. Spoon the torte mixture into the pan and bake for 45 minutes. Allow it to cool, remove from pan, trim to a rectangular shape, and spoon over the raspberry or straberry preserves. You can even have a raspberry/strawberry mixture. Place in refrigerator to chill. When ready to serve, sprinkle with confectioner's sugar and spoon on whipped cream. If you make it yourself, you'll find it's actuallly better than you can get at Quark's. Serves 4 to 6.
 
Reference: The Homecoming, Sanctuary
Information provided by:
The Continuum, www.startrek.com, @2002 2006 CBS Studios, Paramount Pictures
The Cookbook, www.simonsays.com/st, @1999 Pocket Books, Ethan Phillips, William J. Birnes
