FOOD: Yigrish cream pie

A dish available at the Replimat, once enjoyed by Doctor Julian Bashir during a lunch with Garak.
Neelix- "Here's another no-nonsense dessert straight from Quark's food replicators that everyone likes. Even Deanna Troi, were she to spend a weekend on Deep Space 9, would find her way to Quark's Yigrish cream pie once someone described the tantalizing chocolate icing that sets off the vanilla cream custard filling.
Needless to say, you can make packaged-cake-mix cream pie from the store. Many manufacturers make this product or you can make it yourself in various stages of "from scratch." Chocolate frosting comes packaged as well as canned, as does the cream filling. But knowing that everything is packaged, here's how you make it from scratch. Feel free to replace anything with a packaged version.
CAKE:
1 1/4 cups cake flour
1 cup sugar
1/3 cup water
3 eggs, separated
2 tablespoons lemon juice
1 teaspoon double-acting baking powder
1 teaspoon grated lemon rind
1/2 teaspoon salt
1/2 teaspoon vanilla extract
CREAM FILLING:
1 1/2 cups milk
2 egg yolks, slightly beaten
1/3 cup all-purpose flour
1/3 cup sugar
2 tablespoons butter
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
1/4 teaspoon salt
CHOCOLATE FROSTING:
1 ounce square semisweet baking chocolate
1/4 cup sugar
1/4 cup milk
1 tablespoon all-purpose flour
1 teaspoon butter
1/2 teaspoon vanilla extract
1/8 teaspoon salt
Preheat oven to 325 degrees. To prepare the cake batter, combine by sifting together the cake flour, baking powder, and salt; set aside. Now separate the eggs and combine the yolks with the water, lemon rind, and vanilla. Beat with a hand mixer on low or with a rotary mixer, while you add the sugar and lemon juice. Now add the dry ingredients to the egg mixture, stirring slowly to remove all lumps; set aside. In a separate bowl, beat the egg  whites until they stiffen, and fold into the cake batter. Grease 2 8-inch cake pans, line them with waxed paper, and pour in the batter. Bake at 325 degrees for 35 to 40 minutes. Test for doneness by inserting a knife of toothpick. Insert and remove, the cake is done with removed the toothpick comes out clean. Set aside to let cool.
For the cream filling, which you should make while the cake layers are baking, heat 1 cup of milk in a saucepan and add the butter. Combine the flour with the salt and sugar. Add the additional 1/2 cup of milk to the dry ingredients and stir until smooth. Then add this to the hot milk and butter in the saucepan, stirring thoroughly until the mixture thickens. Add the slightly beaten egg yolks and cook for 2 to 3 minutes. Remove from heat, add the vanilla, and let the filling cool in a separate bowl while your cake continues to bake and you prepare the frosting.
While the cake is baking and the filling is cooling, melt the square of chocolate in the milk over low heat in a saucepan. Separately, combine the flour, sugar, and salt. Now add these dry ingredients to the milk and chocolate and stir until smooth. Remove from heat and add the butter and vanilla. Beat until thick and set aside.
When the cake layers have cooled enough for you to handle without them crumbling, spread the cream filling on one layer and top with the second layer. Now spread the chocolate icing over the cake swirling it for effect and making sure you cover all of the sides. Refrigerate before serving.

Reference: Distant Voices
Information provided by:
The Continuum, www.startrek.com, @2002 2006 CBS Studios, Paramount Pictures
The Cookbook, www.simonsays.com/st, 1999 Pocket Books, Ethan Phillips, William J. Birnes
