WEAPONS: shields

Forcefields that protect space vessels from damage by natural hazard or enemy attack. Synonyms include deflectors, deflector shields, or screens. Transporters cannot operate through raised shields. 
Deflector shields are focused spatial distortions resulting in a deflective graviton field. This field effect is generated by wave-guides on the outer hull of the ship. Deflector shields have a significant fratricidal effect on the warp fields. Neither system can be operated at optimal efficiency when both are in operation. 
Like most force-field devices, the deflector system creates a localized zone of highly focused special distortion within which an energetic graviton field is maintained. The deflector field itself is emitted and shaped by a series of conformal transmission grids on the spacecraft exterior, resulting in a field that closely follows the form of the vehicle itself. This field is highly resistive to impact due to mechanical incursions ranging from relativistic subatomic particles to more massive objects at lesser relative velocities. When such an intrusion occurs, field energy is concentrated at the point of impact, creating an intense, localized spacial distortion.
Basically all this says is that the shields are a set of reversed gravity screens. if anything 'hits' the screens, the shield system reverses the gravitational acceleration in that zone, counteracting the force of the Photon Torpedo or whatever hits the shield. To the Torpedo, it will seem like it hit something solid... 

Reference: The Corbomite Maneuver, Arena 
Information provided by:
The Continuum, www.startrek.com, @2002 2006 CBS Studios, Paramount Pictures
The Encyclopedia, www.simonsays.com/st, @1997 Pocket Books, Michael & Denise Okuda, Debbie Mirek
TNG Technical Manual, www.simonsays.com/st, @1995 Pocket Books, Michael Okuda, Rick Sternbach
DS9 Technical Manual, www.simonsays.com/st, @19978 Pocket Books, Michael Okuda, Rick Sternback, Doug Drexler
Star Trek in Sound & Vision, www.stinsv.com, @2003 Dave & Richard
