XENOLOGY: Klingon
LOCATION: Qo'noS
GOVERNMENT: Klingon Empire

Humanoid warrior civilization renowned for their prowess in battle, originally from the planet Qo'noS; a proud, tradition-bound people who value honor. The aggressive Klingon culture has made them an interstellar military power to be respected and feared. There is no equivalent of the devil in Klingon mythology, although a beast known as Fek'lhr is believed to guard the underworld of Gre'thor. According to myth, ancient Klingon warriors slew their gods a millennium ago. They apparently were more trouble than they were worth. Perhaps this is why the Klingons have no devil; they killed him. In Klingon society, the death of a warrior who has died honorably in battle is not mourned. In such cases, the survivors celebrate the freeing of the spirit. Klingons believe in an afterlife but there is no burial ceremony. They dispose of the body in the most efficient means possible, confident that the warrior's spirit has now joined Kahless the Unforgettable in Sto-Vo-Kor. Klingon tradition holds that "the son of a Klingon is a man the day he can first hold a blade." Another Klingon ritual is the R'uustai, or bonding ceremony, in which two individuals join families, becoming brothers and sisters. Klingons believe that they have the instinctive ability to look an opponent in the eye and see the intent to kill. Klingon tradition holds that a Klingon who dies by their own hand will not travel across the River of Blood to enter Sto-Vo-Kor. If a Klingon warrior strikes another with the back of his hand, it is interpreted as a challenge to the death. Klingon warriors speak proudly to each other; they do not whisper or keep their distance. Standing far away or whispering are considered insults in Klingon society. The Klingon body incorporates multiple redundancies for nearly all vital bodily functions. This characteristic, known as brak'lul, gives Klingon warriors enormous resiliency in battle. Despite the considerable sophistication of Klingon technology, significant gaps exist in Klingon medical science, in part due to cultural biases that injured warriors should be left to die or to carry out the Hegh'bat. Klingons have redundant stomachs. Klingons have no tear ducts. Klingon blood is a lavender-colored fluid. 
The well-statured warrior race has a genetic predisposition to hostility and a well-known streak of fatalism; Lieutenant Worf says that Klingons do not like to be "probed" by empathic species. The culture's warrior ethic runs so deep that rivals in the civil war can meet and drink as equal fighters for periods of time before or after battles, thanks to the Capitol City's neutrality. During these get-togethers, a great deal of growling, wrestling, snarling and generally loud revelry takes place, Klingons seeming to derive tremendous satisfaction from drinking with their enemies on the night before a battle. A beard is a symbol of courage; a hammer is a symbol of power. A true warrior fights to the death and would rather be killed than taken hostage - an act which brings dishonor on himself and his family for three generations. Their most important historic symbol of leadership, Kahless, said Klingons should fight not just to spill blood but to enrich the spirit. Their scientists are not highly regarded in the culture. Shattering the cranial exoskeleton at the tricipital lobe brings instant death. 
In the traditional sense, the Klingon people hold honor above life - although as with any culture, high-level politics and personal gain get in the way. In Klingon culture, lower-ranked officers consider it a duty to kill off a superior who is perceived as weak. Klingons notoriously neither surrender nor bluff, although Chief Engineer La Forge is skeptical of that based on Lieutenant Worf's seemingly impenetrable "poker face" during their poker games on board the U.S.S. Enterprise NCC-1701-D. 
The Klingon Klag on board the Pagh admits he does not speak to his father, who is slowly dying on the homeworld without honor after escaping from victorious Romulans who would not allow him to die as a Klingon should die - in battle. Klingon language had no word for the concept of "peacemaker" until Ramatisian mediator Riva negotiated the early United Federation of Planets-Klingon treaties just decades ago. Warriors and their families are responsible for each other's actions; a challenge to clear a family's name, such as Lieutenant Worf's, ends in death if unsuccessful. They believe that death is an experience best shared and view it as a joyful time for one who falls in the line of duty and earns a place among the honored dead, celebrating the release of a dead spirit rather than grieving over what they consider to be the empty shell of the body. One of the most honorable deaths is a kamikaze-like suicide that takes an enemy's life with it. Viewed through their Spartan perspective, illness (especially terminal) is not honorable; one is not supposed to faint, at least as an adult, a bias that leads to a lack of both research and sympathy for such patients; usually cases of paralysis such as Lieutenant Worf's are left to die - or to perform the ritual suicide Hegh'bat. Of course, half-human Federation emissary, K'Ehleyr thought it was just more "Klingon nonsense" and "dumb ideas about honor." 
Lieutenant Worf says Earth and humanoid females like the Edo are too fragile for what his race considers love, although that would likely apply to a Klingon of either gender with a human mate. A roaring yell akin to the death wail is the Klingon female's mating call, Lieutenant Worf says, followed by their hurling of heavy objects and clawing. The male responds by reading love poetry - and ducking a lot; a form of dominance/submission is seen when he is given a Klingon female thanks to Commander Riker's temporary Q powers; she is donned in leather accessories and some armor, she seems jealous of Yar, takes a strong slap from Worf and comes back on her knees - defiantly growling. The actual act of love can be intermingled with pain and include the Klingons' highly developed sense of smell; once aroused, the combat as well as passion instinct appears hard to quell: it takes a sharp command to snap Lieutenant Worf and later K'Ehleyr out of their bloodrush. Klingons usually mate for life, celebrated with a solemn Oath of Union, most often in private, rather than in a public ceremony like marriage; judging by Lieutenant Worf's initial issuance of the Oath of Union to K'Ehleyr, the Oath doesn't appear include much talking, and no dancing or crying as in human weddings. If Lieutenant Worf is any example, male chauvinism is much more pronounced in mainstream Klingon society than among humans; women cannot sit on the High Council, so even the powerful Duras sisters, Lursa and B'Etor, must find a puppet nephew to rule through. 
Lieutenant Worf echoes the modern Klingon attitude toward Romulans when he says the enemy "considers humans and Klingons a waste of skin"; Romulans and Klingons having been "blood enemies" for 75 years (or since about 2292), after an extremely brief alliance. Klingons apparently hold the Ferengi with almost as much disdain as they do Romulans, thinking them loud of talk, yet weak in action. Klingon officers do not let their children live with them as a general rule, although "the son of a Klingon is a man the day he can first hold a blade"; Lieutenant Worf allows his son, Alexander, to stay with him on the Galaxy-class Enterprise when other options run out, though he says it is inappropriate for a Klingon to receive family while on duty; and Klag says a Klingon "is his work, not his family." Klingons are remarkably skilled hunters, relying on their keen olfactory senses to pick up and stalk their prey. They eat their meat raw, seasoned more strongly than humans prefer, and find the human tradition of "burning their meat" to be somewhat repulsive. If Lieutenant Worf is any clue, they regard swimming with as much disdain as they do bathing. At least once, Klingons use the United Federation of Planets' Earth-derived metric system. Lieutenant Worf contends that love poetry and the great novel both reached their height with the Klingons. See also Honor, Klingon; Klingon Physiology. 
T'kar and Yeto were two more Klingons who had no respect for the Klingon Empire's current state of affairs. Kang fretted that the warrior ethic was lost among modern Klingons who would open restaurants and such. Science Officer Dax said that getting Kang angry at Curzon was the only way to begin to create a bond between the two - a Klingon truism, Kang agreed. The custom of naming godparents or other relatives is practiced among Klingons as well as humans. The Jem'Hadar, Third Talak'talan, expressed regret that his first experience with an Alpha Quadrant being was not with a Klingon warrior, but with Federation humans and a Ferengi instead, both of whom he considered weak. 
Despite the disillusionment and disrespect of some Klingons, Klingon honor still counts among the peoples. D'Ghor was not allowed to claim the House of Kozak based on financial debts alone, and he was stopped and shamed while attacking the unarmed Quark before the High Council. Grilka and Gowron alike sneered at financial matters and normally considered them beneath a warrior's time and attention, charging D'Ghor with using "money to bring down a great house"; even so, Quark was able to resurrect a plenitude of complex financial records. Challenges to personal honor are settled usually by personal combat, but Quark used numbers. Klingon females - banned from holding Council seats - are not even allowed to head their heirless dead husband's house, except in special cases. The Klingons must have some class system, as personal servants are used, usually among what appear to be the poor. Due to their rough nature, especially when drunk, Quark charged Klingons double for holosuite use, and then raised it to triple normal cost. The Klingons' profound hatred of Romulans continues. 
Although they believe in an afterlife, Klingons perform no burial ritual and dispose of the corpse by the most efficient means possible - although some archeological digs on Qo'noS revealed different customs at one time. 
History & Culture -
Humanoid warrior civilization, originally from the planet Qo'noS; a proud, tradition-bound people who value honor. The aggressive Klingon culture has made them an interstellar military power to be respected and feared. There is no equivalent of the devil in Klingon mythology, although a beast known as Fek'lhr is believed to guard the underworld of Gre'thor. According to myth, ancient Klingon warriors slew their gods a millennium ago. They apparently were more trouble than they were worth. Perhaps this is why the Klingons have no devil; they killed him. In Klingon society, the death of a warrior who has died honorably in battle is not mourned. In such cases, the survivors celebrate the freeing of the spirit. Klingons believe in an afterlife but there is no burial ceremony. They dispose of the body in the most efficient means possible, confident that the warrior's spirit has now joined Kahless the Unforgettable in Sto-Vo-Kor. Klingon tradition holds that "the son of a Klingon is a man the day he can first hold a blade." Another Klingon ritual is the R'uustai, or bonding ceremony, in which two individuals join families, becoming brothers and sisters. Klingons believe that they have the instinctive ability to look an opponent in the eye and see the intent to kill. Klingon tradition holds that a Klingon who dies by their own hand will not travel across the River of Blood to enter Sto-Vo-Kor. If a Klingon warrior strikes another with the back of his hand, it is interpreted as a challenge to the death. Klingon warriors speak proudly to each other; they do not whisper or keep their distance. Standing far away or whispering are considered insults in Klingon society. 
The Klingon body incorporates multiple redundancies for nearly all vital bodily functions. This characteristic, known as brak'lul, gives Klingon warriors enormous resiliency in battle. Despite the considerable sophistication of Klingon technology, significant gaps exist in Klingon medical science, in part due to cultural biases that injured warriors should be left to die or to carry out the Hegh'bat. Klingons have redundant stomachs. Klingons have no tear ducts. Klingon blood is a lavender-colored fluid.
As for the evolutionary changes that have taken place since first contact with the Klingons, there has been no clear explanation. Worf, while serving aboard Deep Space Nine, has said the differences between the foreheads of today's and yesterday's Klingons are never discussed with outsiders.
Military History -
The Klingon Nation, founded some 1,500 years ago by Kahless the Unforgettable, who first united the Klingon people by killing the tyrant Molor. The Klingon Empire has had a long, colorful, and violent history, with many bloody conflicts such as the battle of Tong Vey, in which an ancient Emperor Sompek ordered the destruction of an entire city. By 2069, the empire was controlled by the Klingon High Council, which had grown so powerful that no emperor headed the empire from that year until the ascension of the second Kahless in 2369.
First contact between the Klingon Empire and the Federation took place in 2218, a disastrous event that led to nearly a century of hostilities between the two powers. By 2267, negotiations between the Federation and the Klingon Empire were on the verge of breaking down. The Klingons had issued an ultimatum to the Federation to withdraw from disputed areas claimed by both the Federation and Klingon Empire or face war. The hostilities came to a head at planet Organia, the only class-M world in the region. Unknown to either combatant, the Organians were incredibly advanced noncorporal life-forms who imposed the Organian Peach Treaty on both parties, thus effectively ending armed hostilities.
The Klingons entered into a brief alliance with the Romulan Star Empire around 2268, when an agreement between the two powers resulted in the sharing of military technology and spacecraft designs, providing the Romulans with Klingon battle cruisers. By the mid-2280s, Klingons were using ships described as birds-of-prey (traditionally a Romulan term) that were equipped with cloaking devices.
Early talks between the Federation and Klingon Empire took place at the Korvat colony in 2289. While no major breakthroughs resulted, some small progress was made when Federation negotiator Curzon Dax earned the respect of his Klingon colleagues. The Klingons considered tribbles to be an ecological menace, a plague to be wiped out. In the later part of the 23rd century, hundreds of Klingon warriors were sent to track them down throughout the galaxy. An armada obliterated the tribble home world, and before the 24th century, tribbles had been eradicated.
A new chapter in relations between the Klingons and the Federation was opened in 2293 when a catastrophic explosion on Praxis caused serious environmental damage to the home world. in the economic disarray that followed, Klingon Chancellor Gorkon, leader of the High Council, found that his Empire could no longer afford its massive military forces. Gorkon launched a peace initiative, offering to end some 70 years of hostilities with the Federation. Just prior to a major peace conference, Gorkon was murdered by Federation and Klingon interests who sought to maintain the status quo. Gorkon's successor, his daughter Azetbur, continued her father's work, and successfully concluded the Kitomer Accords with the Federation later that year, ending nearly a century of hostilities.
The Klingon High Council was a hotbed of political intrigue that nearly plunged the empire into civil war in 2367 when council leader K'mpec died of poison. This murder, viewed as a killing without honor under Klingon tradition, triggered a bitter struggle to determine K'mpec's successor. K'mpec had taken the unorthodox precaution of appointing a non-Klingon, Jean Luc Picard, as his Arbiter of Succession. Under Picard's mediation, political newcomer Gowron emerged as the sole candidate for council leader. Forces loyal to the powerful Duras family unsuccessfully attempted to block Gowron, plunging the empire into a brief civil war in 2367. Though their nation was called an empire, it had not been ruled by an emperor for more than three centuries. This situation changed rather dramatically in 2369, when the clerics of Boreth produced a clone of Kahless the Unforgettable. Although their initial claim that Kahless was the actual one was quickly disproved, this clone was regarded as the rightful heir to the throne and, with the support of Chancellor Gowron, was installed as the ceremonial emperor of the Klingon people.
The Empire was ever-vigilant against potential outside threats and, in early 2372, reacted strongly when a civil uprising overthrew the Cardassian military, placing power in the hands of the Detapa Council. Fearing that the Cardassian government had been taken over by the Dominion, Gowron's forces, commanded by a changeling agent impersonating General Martok, invaded Cardassia Prime, intending to execute the Detapa Council and install an imperial overseer to rule. The Federation Council condemned the Klingon invasion, and in response, Gowron canceled the Kitomer Accords, expelled all Federation citizens from the empire and recalled his ambassadors. Open hostilities between the Klingon Empire and the Federation flared up over the next few months, resulting in the destruction of the starship Farrogut at the Lembatta cluster and a pointless skirmish at Ajilon Prime. A cease-fir with the Federation was established shortly after this incident.
With the Dominion threat becoming more great with every fleet of ships coming through the Bajoran wormhole, the Klingons allied themselves with the Federation. After Captain Ben Sisko decided to mine the entrance to the wormhole so no more Dominion forces could enter the Alpha Quadrant, war was inevitable. The Cardassians joined forces with the Dominion, and later in the war the Breen entered in that alliance. The Federation Alliance, later consisting of the Romulans, defeated the Dominion Alliance to end a long and costly war. During a critical time during the war (when the Breen entered the war they brought new weapons that disabled Federation and Romulan ships, making them helpless, but the Klingons were immune to this weapon), Chancellor Gowron took control of the Klingon forces from General Martok, serving his own political purposes. Worf challenged Gowron for leadership of the High Council and killed Gowron. Worf then made General Martok the new Chancellor of the High Council. After the war with the Dominion had ended, Chancellor Martok offered Worf the position of Ambassador to the Federation. Worf accepted and returned to Qo'noS with Chancellor Martok.
Their first contact with humanity came in April 2151 when the spaceship of the Klingon warrior Klaang crash-landed in Broken Bow, Oklahoma.

Reference: Errand of Mercy, The Trouble With Tribbles, Reunion, Redemption, The Way of the Warrior, Trials and Tribble-ations, Broken Bow, Day of Honor, Weekend Pass, Dargo's Commission, Atomic Showers
Information provided by:
The Continuum, www.startrek.com, @2002 2006 CBS Studios, Paramount Pictures
The Encyclopedia, www.simonsays.com/st, @1997 Pocket Books, Michael & Denise Okuda, Debbie Mirek
Star Trek Novel Encyclopedia Novel Group, www.stneg.org, @2006 Deb J S
Starfleet Academy, www.geocities.com/starfleet_academy_2373, @2000 Kenn Ferguson

