PERSONNEL: Aiello
Lieutenant, Helmsman, U.S.S. Sutherland

A Bolian female born during the traditional rainy season in 2347 on Bolarus IX. She was born as an only child to Hoak and Idella. She spent much time with her paternal grandparents who lived on the other side of the planet.
She was fond of using the groundcar her family kept, rather than using the transmat system of the planet. She was not fond of transporters.
Upon entering the Academy, Aiello sought a career as a helmsman following in the path of her paternal grandfather, Camry. She graduated from the Academy and was made an Ensign aboard the U.S.S. Kearsarge. She was a relief officer for the helm and volunteered for many extra shift. As a relief officer she was offered numerous opportunities to fly shuttlecraft.
Aiello distinguished herself as an excellent pilot when she accompanied an away team on a rescue mission of a heavily damaged Cardassian Galor class warship. The bridge was open to space and its crew dead. After the Kearsarge erected a forcefield around the bridge and restored a livable atmosphere to it, the away team went in. Aiello was ordered to move the warship out of the asteroid field it had tried to take refuge in, and travel to Starbase 375 with it. The casualties were being removed from the warship when three Klingon Birds-of-Prey decloaked and began to attack the ship again. The Klingons did not yet attack the Kearsarge, but refused to acknowledge hails from it to be warned of the Federation crew aboard the target vessel.
In defense of the Federation crew, the Kearsarge fired numerous warning shots at the Klingon vessels. Most Klingon captains were angry with Starfleet for not assisting in the battle between the Klingons and the Cardassians, and were well aware of the dissolvement of the Khitomer Accords. It didn't need to take much for a glory hungry Klingon captain to decide that the Federation vessel could easily be destroyed and blamed as an attack on them, so they did just that.
With the Kearsarge gone, Aiello piloted the warship through the asteroid field while the other Federation officers restored enough of the ship's disrupter systems to destroy the attackers.
Aiello was given a commendation for her skills against much more maneuverable adversaries, and a promotion to full Lieutenant. Her presence at a Starbase was well timed as they needed more pilots to command Runabout missions. With broadcast security at a high, Runabouts were often being used to transfer important messages and cargoes to sites along the Cardassian border. The U.S.S. Loire and her penetrated many battlesites to complete her missions. She was responsible for the last set of supplies delivered to Aijilon Prime, while the Klingons were attacking it; and several trips to Deep Space Nine.
She was later assigned to the U.S.S. Sutherland as chief helm officer under the command of Captain Ramsey. She stayed with the vessel during its refit period and assignment to the Academy. She was asked to teach courses within the school and accepted the position as instructor of the Evasive Maneuvers class taught at the Academy Flight Range in orbit of Saturn. Aiello is a little claustrophobic

2347 	Born on Bolarus IX
2365	Accepted to Starfleet Academy
2369	Graduated from Starfleet Academy
2369	Promoted to Ensign
2369	Transferred to U.S.S. Kearsarge
2372	Promoted to Lieutenant
2372	Transferred to U.S.S. Loire
2373	Transferred to U.S.S. Sutherland
2373	Began teaching at Starfleet Academy

Father	Hoak	
Mother	Idella	
Paternal
Father 	Camry	Starship Commander

Reference: Fall Semester, et al Starfleet Academy
In an attempt to be well rounded I wanted to include some of the well established Federation races into the crew of the starship and the Academy. And to name the people I made a serious attempt to be creative and to come up with original names for my characters. It wasn't until years after I started the series and after I begun my research that I learned of a Trek crewman named James Aiello. While maybe the name was witnessed in the credits after the movie, and I am known for watching the names, I do not remember the event. It was my sincere intent to create an original name.
Information provided by:
Starfleet Academy, www.geocities.com/starfleet_academy_2373, @2000 Kenn Ferguson
