PERSONNEL: Jules Ashworth

The first Terran to be born off Earth, in 2005. In the medical log created by the chief medical officer of the Farside Moonbase on Luna, Dr. Hans Hovendaal recorded the following statement:
It is my very great pleasure to announce that human history was made today with the birth of the first baby born in space. 
Radio Telescope Technician 1st Class Rita Ashworth gave birth this morning to a 3.2 kg. boy. Mrs. Ashworth employed natural childbirth, and both mother and baby are doing extremely well. Dr. Weldon Ashworth, of the Astro-Telemetry Section, said their son will be named Jules, after the famous science-fiction writer, who first envisioned man coming here.
The birth of the first human in space has been realistically considered for years, dating back to the 1970s. In fact, we at the Farside Moonbase have had the capability for doing the job for over a year, but had no expectant mothers. It is to their credit the Ashworths decided six months ago to remain here to have the child. I know it was a trying experience for them, for even the farside of the moon is no longer safe haven from the constant inquiries of the world’s press.
As assisting physician, I can report the birth was an exceptionally easy one, though I took the precaution of completing the delivery in the operating room in case complications resulted from unknown extraterrestrial causes. The operating room was kept slightly decompressed, and the lower pressure eased the mother’s contractions considerably. In general, the moon’s lower gravity seemed to help the whole birth process.
But the more difficult question both doctors and potential parents have asked still remains: What effect will being born and raised away from Earth have on children. The Ashworths, of course, know there are risks, which they weighed carefully before deciding upon their course of action. They should be recommended for their courage. I personally will be rigorously monitoring young Jules’ progress for any unusual growth signs or irregularities, though I remain confident he’ll have a normal infancy.
Again, my congratulations to the Ashworths, and to this, the first space baby. A new generation of man has begun.

Reference: Spaceflight Chronology
Information provided by:
ST Spaceflight Chronology, www.simonsays.com/st, @1980 Wallaby Books, Stan & Fred Goldstein, Rick Sternbach
