PERSONNEL: Joseph Burleigh
Cadet 1st class, engineering program, Starfleet Academy

A large engineering Terran born September 29, 2355 in Bari, Italy, Earth. Born fifth of eight to Anthony Isaac and Deborah Ann (Smith) Burleigh. The third son after Anthony Jr., Dominic, Gina, Antonia, Joseph, Angelo, Talia, and Vincent.
He lived on the Eastern seaboard of Italy, on the Adriatic Sea. The extended family lives on a hillside farm overlooking the water that has been owned by the family for centuries. Several large single family homes zig zag up and down the hillside, each containing one of the numerous groups of Burleigh family clusters. Each home is built new by the grown child of the family, and the older houses are demolished upon the passing of the last resident.
The Burleigh family has been a set of influential engineers within Starfleet for several generations, but Joseph is the first to enter Starfleet Academy. His father and his paternal grandfather Alexander were both chief of operations of Starfleet orbital habitats and office centers. Several of Joseph's large family have also begun serving Starfleet as engineers. With the shortage of officers during the Dominion War, many of them were able to receive postings to starships and starbases along the front lines, half of them didn't return.
Burleigh is known to his family and intimate friends as Joey, but to all others as Burleigh. Most of his academy associates do not even recognize that he has a first name. Burleigh associates with aliens often, and a first name is often not recognized by alien cultures.
Burleigh is a large build man, and very athletic. He played sports throughout his growing years. Coming from a large family he always had plenty of teammates and opponents to play with on the family farm. Soccer and football were his two favorites until he learned to play rugby and parisi squares.
As a child, Joseph was the strongest of his siblings and generational cousins. He was also a little slow physically and mentally compared to the rest. He is not seen as stupid, just careful about his thoughts. He does not stutter of say things he does not mean. Being slow thinking, he takes his time as says exactly what he wants. He has average intelligence and a large vocabulary. When he does say something, he is often impressive with his word choices.
The family is officially Roman Catholic as a religion, and the family farm includes a church. However, regular services are not held nor attended. Rather the family has accepted many new traditions. They do not believe in ever lasting life. As seen on the farm with the homesteads, the family accepts the loss gracefully. Bodies of the deceased are often cremated and scattered into the dirt.
Burleigh's psyche profile shows a strong analytical mind. He is able to process complex thoughts and develop new ideas, especially mathematics. Creativity is not a strong suit. Burleigh is often a loaner as well. Raised with the large family he never received much personal time as a child, or individual attention. He has taken a choice of attitude to become opposite of that as an adult. He is not reclusive, but greatly enjoys peace and quiet times in solitude. 

TIMELINE:
2355: Born September 29 in Bari, Italy, Earth
2357: Brother, Angelo, born
2358: Sister, Talia, born
2360: Brother, Vincent, born
Graduated and entered Starfleet Academy 

FAMILY:
Father:	Anthony Isaac Burleigh	2330	Orbital station chief of operations
Mother:	Deborah Ann (Smith) 	2332	Nurse
Brother:	Anthony Isaac Jr.		2349	Holographic expert
Sister -law:Jill (Gallo) Burleigh	2348	Nurse
Nephew:	Francesco Burleigh	2367	
Niece:	Angelica Burleigh		2369
Brother:	Dominic Louis		2351	Killed in Dominion War, engineer
Sister:	Gina (Burleigh) Macelli	2352	Social worker
Brother-law: Antionne Macelli		2353	Engineer at TV station
Nephew:	Joseph Macelli		2371
Sister:	Antonia			2354	Architect
Brother	Angelo			2357	recent graduate
Sister	Talia				2358	student, HS
Brother	Vincent			2360	student, HS
Paternal 
Father:	Alexander Burleigh	2300	Chief engineer, orbital residences
Mother:	Sabrina Burleigh		2307	died 2360
Uncle:	Louis Burleigh		2327	Propulsion engineer
Wife:		Tabitha (Wright- Thompson)2322	Deuterium handler
Cousin:	Gerald Thompson		2350	Counselor, USS Bersalis, Sutherland
Prev wife:	Daphne			2322	died 2365
Cousin:	Seth Burleigh		2360
Cousin:	David Burleigh		2363
Uncle:	Carmine Burleigh		2348	died 2370, engineer

COURSEWORK:
Summer semester, 2373, freshman year
Orientation
Fall semester, 2373, freshman year
Transporter Operations
Targeting
Warp Theory
Basic 1st Aid
Astronomy I
Protocol
Winter semester, 2374, freshman year
Prime Directive
Federation History
Federation Government
LCARS
Self Defense
Life Support Systems

Reference: Starfleet Academy series
I picture Joey Tribianni, played by Matt LeBlanc on "Friends" as this character. Many of the other personality tra are based on a former college neighbor, Craig Mattingly and from my own background (of course).
Information provided by:
Starfleet Academy, www.geocities.com/starfleet_academy_2373, @2000 Kenn Ferguson
