PERSONNEL: Pavel Andreievich Chekov
Commander, navigator and tactical officer, U.S.S. Enterprise

Serial number: 656-5827B

TIMELINE:
2245: Born 
2263: Entered Starfleet Academy.
2263: As ensign, took first posting on U.S.S. Enterprise under Capt. James T. Kirk as navigator 
2269: Promoted to lieutenant, named security chief to Capt. Will Decker on refit of Enterprise 
2277: Assigned to U.S.S. Reliant under Capt. Clark Terrell 
2285: As commander and Reliant First Officer, witnessed Genesis incident and captain's death 
2286: Charged and cleared of theft of Enterprise a year earlier with fellow officers 
Chekov was the navigator on the original U.S.S. Enterprise under the command of James T. Kirk. An only child, his youthful career was so full of brash pronouncements of Russian ethnic pride and accomplishments he became a good-natured joke among his superiors. 
Although he was always a promising officer with a career to bear it out, the young Chekov was prone to hot-heated actions and romantic attachments. While attending Starfleet Academy his involvement with fellow cadet Irina Galliulin broke off when she dropped out of the service before graduation in disdain for its structure. Years later they met again when she and other Eden-seekers with Dr. Sevrin were aboard. 
Following the end of his first five-year mission, Chekov was promoted to lieutenant when he was assigned as security chief aboard the refit U.S.S. Enterprise. Assigned to the U.S.S. Reliant in 2377 and promoted to commander within eight years of that, he was first officer to the ill-fated Captain Clark Terrell during the Genesis Project incident and Khan Singh's grab for it. For the next few years he remained one of Kirk's trusted officers and stood with the group in the theft of the Enterprise to refuse Spock's body and katra, and then faced the UFP Council when those charges were dropped. 
Chekov suffered serious wounds when time-traveling to 1986 during an attempted escape from the U.S.S. Enterprise naval aircraft carrier when suspected of being a Soviet spy of the time. He would have died if left to contemporary medicine, but was saved thanks to McCoy and went on to help secure the Khitomer Peace Accords - followed shortly by his shocked witness to Kirk's apparent death at the christening of the newest U.S.S. Enterprise, the NCC-1701-B. 

Reference: Catspaw, Who Mourns for Adonais? Day of the Dove, The Way to Eden, Space Seed, The Deadly Years, The Motion Picture, The Wrath of Khan, The Search for Spock, The Voyage Home, The Final Frontier, The Undiscovered Country, Generations.
Information provided by:
The Continuum, www.startrek.com, @2002 2006 CBS Studios, Paramount Pictures
The Encyclopedia, www.simonsays.com/st, @1997 Pocket Books, Michael & Denise Okuda, Debbie Mirek
