PERSONNEL: Kene Chisholm
Lieutenant Commander, Chief Science Officer, 2nd officer, U.S.S. Sutherland

Born July 22, 2346 in Glascow, Scotland, Earth to ?? and ?? as an only child. When he was four years old his family moved to Gladwin, Michigan, Earth when his father was transferred to work at the Ford Plant in Dearborn, Michigan, Earth on replicator designs and functions. His mother, also working for Starfleet, accepted a transfer that took her from the family when Kene was 9. She moved to Vulcan to take command of a team of engineers and scientists working on science station designs at the Tumay orbital facility of the Advanced Starship Design Bureau.
During his high school years, Kene was granted permission to take several advance placement courses at the University of Michigan, Flint campus, where he began working on hi-tech computers. Two years later, upon graduation, Kene was accepted to Eastern Michigan University where he took business and computer courses including Marketing and Information Systems which allowed him to create an original retail database system.
After one year of college, Kene moved to London and got a flat of his own where he developed his computer database for several companies. After one year of that he applied and was accepted to Starfleet Academy.
At the Academy he became a science student, focusing strongly on computer skills. He took several engineering and security courses to enhance his computer education. To be well rounded he did take communications and Command training and first aid medical courses as well. He did his field assignment aboard the USS Grundy, an Oberth class starship on a mission to catalog star systems. During his four months aboard, the ship was in the Lancul System and he increased computer memory transfer rates between the ship and its assigned shuttlecraft by 250%.
Upon graduation from the Academy in 2359, he was posted to the USS Abu Dabi as an engineer for computer systems. He was later assigned to Spacedock where he became a Computer System Specialist. As part of his duties he often worked with engineering teams to refit starship computer systems. Many times the starship he was working on was removed from spacedock and Kene would accompany the vessel on its shakedown cruise.
While at spacedock, Kene met Admiral Alynna Nechayev and accompanied her on a mission aboard the U.S.S. Aiello, a New Orleans class frigate, to recover the computer core of U.S.S. Enterprise NCC-1701-D from Veridian III. Kene was assigned to be in charge of the recovery of the core and its peripheral systems. Since then Admiral Nechayev has transferred Kene to many different prototype starships to work on their computer systems too. From the U.S.S. Valiant, to the U.S.S. Agamemnon, U.S.S. Eagle, U.S.S. Steamrunner, U.S.S. Biko, U.S.S. Wyoming, U.S.S. Horizon, U.S.S. Ambassador, U.S.S. Denver, U.S.S. Sabre, U.S.S. Budapest, U.S.S. Tripoli, U.S.S. LaSalle, U.S.S. Constellation, U.S.S. Daedalus, U.S.S. Prokofiev, U.S.S. Akira, U.S.S. Bradbury, U.S.S. Constantinople, U.S.S. Goddard, U.S.S. Intrepid, U.S.S. Norway, U.S.S. Kearsarge, U.S.S. Hermes, U.S.S. Maryland, U.S.S. Chimera, and finally to the U.S.S. Sutherland.
Kene has regular access to the runabout, U.S.S. Chari, an enhanced sensor and computer craft modified by Kene's designs. Admiral Nechayev transfers assignment of the Chari to the same starship that Kene is assigned, ensuring Kene's access to the unofficially reserved craft.
Kene has been given the title of chief science officer aboard the Sutherland despite the fact that he only has experience working with computer systems; lacking greatly in sensor experience and planetary systems work. He was posted to the Sutherland to work with a survey expert, Ed Wasser, in hopes that he will develop skills and interests in the broader scope of science work. Kene has strong engineering skills and can work well on engineering solutions. He has also developed a specialty for holographic work and other simulators. He is capable of creating and writing holographic programs, and is fluent on the design on the EMH, Emergency Medical Hologram, and LTMH, Long Term Medical Hologram. 

2346	Born July 22, Glascow, Scotland, Earth
2350	Moved to Gladwin, Michigan, Earth
2355	Mother left family for Vulcan
2362	Began advanced placement classes at University of Michigan /Flint
2364	Graduated high school
2364	Accepted and entered college at Eastern Michigan University
2365	Moved to London, England, Earth
2366	Accepted and entered Starfleet Academy
2368	Completed field experience aboard U.S.S. Grundy as science officer
2370	Graduated from Starfleet Academy and made Ensign
2370	Posted to U.S.S. Valiant as computer specialist
2370	Transferred to U.S.S. Agamemnon
2370	Transferred to U.S.S. Eagle
2370	Transferred to U.S.S. Steamrunner
2370	Transferred to U.S.S. Biko
2370	Transferred to U.S.S. Wyoming
2370	Transferred to U.S.S. Horizon
2371	Promoted to Lieutenant jg
2371	Transferred to U.S.S. Ambassador
2371	Transferred to U.S.S. Denver
2371	Transferred to U.S.S. Sabre
2371	Transferred to U.S.S. Budapest
2371	Transferred to U.S.S. Tripoli
2371	Transferred to U.S.S. LaSalle
2371	Completed upgrades to U.S.S. Chari
2372	Transferred to Spacedock Museum, U.S.S. Constellation
2372	Transferred within Museum, U.S.S. Daedalus
2372	Transferred to U.S.S. Prokofiev
2372	Transferred to U.S.S. Akira
2372	Transferred to U.S.S. Bradbury
2372	Transferred to U.S.S. Constantinople
2372	Transferred to U.S.S. Goddard
2372	Promoted to full Lieutenant
2372	Transferred to U.S.S. Intrepid
2372	Transferred to U.S.S. Norway
2373	Transferred to U.S.S. Kearsarge
2373	Transferred to U.S.S. Hermes
2373	Transferred to U.S.S. Maryland
2373	Promoted to Lieutenant Commander
2373	Transferred to U.S.S. Chimera
2373	Transferred to U.S.S. Sutherland 

FAMILY:
CLASSIFIED

COURSEWORK:

Reference: Starfleet Academy series
Information provided by:
Starfleet Academy, www.geocities.com/starfleet_academy_2373, @2000 Kenn Ferguson
