PERSONNEL: Zefram Cochrane
PhD, warp theorist, Earth

The renowned Terran American scientist and developer of warp drive on his world, an eccentric genius whom became a reluctant hero. Cochrane launched his warp test vessel Phoenix from an abandoned Titan missile silo in remote Montana and unwittingly sparked first contact for Earth with a passing Vulcan ship on April 5, 2063. He was later very influencial in the advancement of further warp studies and worked with Dr. Henry Archer to construct the warp 5 engine, that eventually would be flown by Archer's son. Cochrane later moved to Alpha Centauri and on a trip back from Earth he was lost in space aboard his starship. 
He was found in the Gamma Caneris region by a non-corporeal entity, known as the Companion. It restored Cochrance to health and a youthful appearance. During their time together on the planet the Companion became romantically fond of Cochrane. In 2267 the U.S.S. Enterprise shuttle, Galileo II, was also taken to the same planet in an effort to provide company for Cochrane. Commissioner Nancy Hedford, who was in serious medical danger, did not survive and the Companion took her form to have a body to interact with Cochrane through. Cochrane requested that Captain James Kirk not report the discovery to Starfleet since he did not want to be disturbed.
Cochrane often indulged in alcohol, cheese perogies, and rock 'n' roll music from the 20th century. Cochrane's assistant, Lily Sloane, affectionately called him "Z". Profit alone drove their initial work, but their character grew with their subsequent fame. Cochrane admitted that World War III had changed his ideas about nobility, and at the time he only wanted to retire to a Pacific Isle and its native women. Around 2073, give or take a year, he offered one of his more famous quotes: "Don't try to be a great man ... just be a man. Let history make its own judgments."
In a temporarily altered timeline, the launch and contact were sabotaged by the Borg and led to an isolated and easily assimilated Earth, but history was restored by the efforts of the U.S.S. Enterprise-E crew. At the first sign of Borg attack, the drunk Cochrane abandoned his project to seek shelter and then, ignorant of his place in history, was blase about its presumed loss. Hearing of his eventual fame panicked him and he bolted, only to be chased and brought back by Riker's team and given a prodding to go on, even with a hangover. 
In honor of Zefram Cochrane's achievement, humans and their Federation peers celebrate "First Contact Day" once a year, often meaning a day off from school for the youngsters, including from those schools named after him, like the high school that Enterprise engineer Geordi La Forge attended.

TIMELINE: 
2030: Born
2063: Made 1st warp flight
: Dedicated new Warp 5 facility
2117: Lost, presumed dead
2267: Found in the Gamma Caneris region by the U.S.S. Enterprise

Reference: Metamorphosis, First Contact, Broken Bow
Played by Glenn Corbett, James Cromwell. Cochrane was portrayed by Corbett in "Metamorphosis" and James Cromwell for the other presentations. James Cromwell also played Nayrok in "The Hunted," and Jaglom Shrek in "Birthright." The producers were very happy to have signed Cromwell to the part following his success and award for his part in Babe. 
Information provided by:
The Continuum, www.startrek.com, @2002 2006 CBS Studios, Paramount Pictures
The Encyclopedia, www.simonsays.com/st, @1997 Pocket Books, Michael & Denise Okuda, Debbie Mirek
Star Trek in Sound and Vision, www.stinsv.com, @2003 Dave & Richard


