PERSONNEL: Daniels
Crewman, temporal agent, Enterprise NX-01

This man from the 29th Century was involved in one side of the Temporal Cold War, fighing against other factions that attempt to use time travel in an effort to further their casue- Daniels claimed to work for a faction preventing the use of time travel. Klaang, the courier that crash landed on Earth and was being sent back to Qo'noS aboard the Enterprise starship was carrying data related to temporal interference and would be a target for attack, so Daniels acquired a crew position aboard the spacecraft in an effort to prevent the tampering of the timeline. He worked to advise Captain Archer as much as he felt was absolutely necessary to maintain the flow of time that he recognized.
Crewman Daniels was killed by Silik, a senior Kabal Suliban that was working against the others. Daniels quarters were sealed and his roommate reassigned. Archer did return to his quarters a couple of times to access his PADD which contained information in its "history" database about things yet to be discovered by the local crew- giving them information they would not normally have. This included technical descriptions of Klingon assault ships and detection processes for cloaking technology.
While Daniels died, incarnations of him from earlier in his own timeline traveled to the Enterprise NX-01 at points later in Archer's timeline to continue giving him advice. Daniels made a serious breech of protocol when he took Archer into the future and showed him the U.S.S. Enterprise-J, and the affect the distortion spheres would have if he didn't succeed; and to a point a few years ahead of Archer's own time where the Captain watch himself give a speech during the ceremony at which the United Federation of Planets was innagurated.

Reference: Brokwn Bow, Cold Front, Shockwave, Storn Front, Azati Prime, Carpenter Street, Zero Hour, Future Tense
Portrayed by Matt Winston.
Information provided by:
The Continuum, www.startrek.com, @2006 CBS Studios


