PERSONNEL: Dargo
Commander/ cadet 1st class, command division, Starfleet Academy

One of the first three Klingon nationals to be entered into the Academy after the end of the Dominion War. (While Worf was the first Klingon to serve, he was considered a Federation citizen after his rescue from Khitomer by a Federation family.)
Dargo, son of ???, of the House G'Relk, of the House Duras was his official title within the Klingon Empire. He lived with his immediate family, and his grandfather in a house on the Duras compound on Qo'noS. His grandfather, an advocate for Jarod, pledged his House to his client in a bid to earn him a seat on the High Council. It did not help Jarod, but it did allow for Duras, son of Jarod, to gain the position and claim honor for his House. Upon earning the political seat, Jarod became part of the House of Duras which transferred all his rights and properties to that new House, including his claims against the House of G'Relk. This shift in power made Duras the g'Artol of the House. These events happened before Dargo or his brother were born, before his mother pledged herself to his father.
So when Dargo was born, 17 days after the Day of Kahless (his birthday), he was immediately considered to be the property of Duras, and was obligated to serve the House. He followed in the path of his parents. His father was a doctor for the Duras House and often accompanied him on his starship. Dargo's mother was hired on as a security officer, but when she bonded with ???? she was allowed to earn promotion within the ranks til she became Captain of the Guard. Dargo served that House as a medical ward assistant during his younger years, then was sent to training in the Klingon Defense Force to serve the House of Duras.
His first posting was to the I.K.C. Br'Muk as a relief tactical officer which served as part of Duras' personal fleet of ships. During a mission near Ty'Gokor, Dargo was ordered to take some scans of the stations and look for tactical weaknesses. He submitted his report to the first officer who rejected them stating that his conclusions were based on inaccurate data. Dargo felt his honor challenged, especially since he knew the data was exact and complete, and challenged his commanding officer. The two fought for only a second since Dargo was able to get the better of him with his mek'leth. He was then promoted to first officer to replace the slain L'Grot, and his first act was to promote Yasok, the chief tactical officer to 2nd in command. Dargo made other advancement for his crew, placing tactical officers in higher ranks since he predicted that a war was coming. Captain Crec allowed the changed and endorsed his executive.
Dargo was proved correct when the beginning of the Klingon Civil War came. The Br'Muk continued to act as a scout, collecting intelligence data on Gowron's forces and relaying them back to Qo'noS. Some members of the crew began to resent Dargo's crew realignment with tactical personnel since it left them with only spying duties, not engagements in combat until the Romulans tried to cross a Federation tachyon grid. The move spurred similar responses by Klingon stations under Gowron's command, including Ty'Gokor and its chain of bases. The Br'Muk was discovered and attacked by a fleet of Duj'Yay medium cruisers, Kahless-class, and others that were being secretly built in orbit of the planetoids in that asteroid belt. Dargo's hand-picked crew were masters of weapons, targeting, and tactical strategy, and were able to out perform the larger assault fleet. Twenty-two starships were destroyed and thirteen were disabled before Captain Crec ordered the Br'Muk pulled back to a safe distance for repairs and clear of the communications block erected by the Ty'Gokor satellites. The information gathered during their last engagement proved to be of great help to the Duras side of the fighting, but not enough to overcome the larger number of ships supporting Gowron; especially once the supplies from Romulus were cut off.
Dargo was given an honorable commendation by General Martok for his strategy during the war and transferred to the Negh'Var to perform fleet tactical analysis. He was extremely important during the attacks on Cardassian targets during their attempt to overthrow that government. He was transferred back to the Br'Muk to perform espionage on Federation targets when the Klingons suspected that Federation neutrality in there Klingon-Cardassian fight would sway them to help the Cardassians. When that didn't prove true, the Br'Muk was assigned to spy on the newly building Dominion fleet.
After one year of Dominion observation, General Martok offered the skills of the tactical specialist over to the Federation as a show of good will, and to help the two forces work together during the Dominion War. Dargo was assigned to Starfleet Intelligence on Earth and assisted with code breaking and translations of data received from the enemy. Dargo was on Earth when the Breen attacked the Presidio and other targets, and in the building that they hit. He was on a subfloor, 100 meters underground when the Breen energy weapon hit the building and destroyed the upper levels. He helped to rescue over 1,000 Starfleet officers from the crumbling building, and was given a citation by the Federation President, Jaresh Inyo, as well as the Commander in Chief of Starfleet.
At the end of the war, General Martok negotiated a stronger peace with the Federation that allowed for Klingon citizens to enter the Starfleet Academy, and Dargo was one of three candidates to be accepted. His earned rank of Commander of the Klingon Defense Force was transferred over to the same in Starfleet registry, even though he is also considered a first-year student at the academy. He has focused on a tactical and operational course of studies at the school. And while he could probably place out of most course requirements based on his Klingon training and experience, he has not chosen to do that for fear that he will miss something from the course, or not understand why the Federation takes certain steps when performing their duties, so he has agreed to take a full class load, complete with all the normal course requirements as a traditional cadet would have to do.

TIMELINE:
2352: Born seventeen days after the Day of Kahless.
2356: Began serving in the medical ward of the House of Duras.
2365: Sent to training in the Klingon Defense Force.
2368: Posted to the I.K.C. Br'Muk.
2370: Promoted to 1st officer.
2372: Transferred to I.K.C. Negh'Var.
2373: Returned to the I.K.C. Br'Muk.
2374: Transferred to Starfleet Intelligence
2375: Commended by the Federation President & Starfleet Commander in Chief
2375: Entered Starfleet Academy

FAMILY:
House of G'Relk; House of Duras
Father:	Tocheck			Doctor
Mother:	Na'Kel			Captain of the Guard
Brother:	N'Nel			Engineer
Paternal
Father:	G'Relk			Advocate

g'ArtOl:	Duras			Councilor (died 236#)

COURSEWORK:

Reference: Weekend Pass, Dargo's Commission, Atomic Showers
Information provided by:
Starfleet Academy, www.geocities.com/starfleet_academy_2373, @2000 Kenn Ferguson
