PERSONNEL: Ezri Dax
Lieutenant jg, Councellor, Deep Space 9

A timid young officer that was mistakingly joined to the Dax symbiont. She was born the youngest of three children. He family ran a successful mining business in the Saporra System. When her father died, he mother and oldest brother took over the daily operations.
While still a cadet with Starfleet Academy, Ezri was serving a field assignment aboard the U.S.S. Destiny as the assistant ship's counselor. The ship was assigned to transport the Dax symbiont from Deep Space 9 to the Trill Symbiosis Commission after the death of Jadzia on the station. When the Destiny was attacked, medical personnel aboard the starship felt it necessary to join Ezri with the symbiont in an effort to protect the life of the symbiont. Since the return trip to Trill took too long, the symbiont could not be removed without killing the new host, Ezri. The dominant personalities of the symbiont quickly proved to be too much for Ezri and she had to seek recooperation time. 
Ezri took leave to visit her home, the first visit since she had been joined. While there, she and Chief Miles O'Brien uncovered extortion on the part of the Orion Syndicate to the family business. Ezri's family was being forced to pay wages to Morica Bilby, the wife of a deceased Orion operative, despite the fact that she was not performing any work for the company herself. The issue became harder and harder to conceal as the widow continued to demand more and more money from the mining company.
During an unauthorized attempt to rescue persons within the Badlands, Commander Worf and Ezri were captured by Breen forces. They were turned over to the Dominion as a gift when the Breen joined forces and became part of the Dominion's alliance. The two were scheduled for execution but were freed by Cardassian resistance fighters trying to overthrow the Dominion leadership.

TIMELINE: Host data 
2354: Born, Ezri Tigan, Sappora System
2372: Enrolled in Starfleet Academy medical program, with emphasis on psychology. 
2374: Assigned to U.S.S. Destiny for field training, assistant ship's counselor. 
2374: Joined to Dax symbiont during medical emergency. 
2375: Transferred to Deep Space Nine
2375: Promoted lieutenant junior grade
2375: Captured by Breen 
2375: Served aboard U.S.S. Defiant during final battle of Dominion war. 

FAMILY:
Father:
Mother: Yanas Tigan
Brother:
Brother:

Personnel Update:
Capt. Raymer, U.S.S. Destiny, from Captain's Log SD 52073.1 
The Destiny is now preparing to leave the Trill homeworld after making a stopover to visit our young crewmate, Ezri Tigan - now know as Ezri Dax. Ensign Dax, after several visits with the Symbiosis Institute, is still experiencing a great deal of disorientation after being joined to the symbiont which was placed in our care after the death of the previous host. She has requested a leave of absence for an indefinite period of time, expressing in vague terms that she needs to seek out past colleagues (presumably meaning those of the previous host). I am granting this request effective immediately. 
This trip was much more awkward than I expected. Knowing full well what Ezri was going through, none of the crew members - myself included - have treated her with the same compassion and camaraderie they would normally bestow upon a crewmate. Largely that is because, since her joining, she has treated us like strangers rather than friends ... but we should have been understanding enough to see past that and support her unconditionally. I hope Ezri will give me and the rest of the crew another chance and maybe find her place among us again. 
Another source of awkwardness during this stay was the presence of Ezri's mother. I had hoped to spend time with her, but I got the distinct impression that she was avoiding me - as if she didn't even want to acknowledge her daughter's involvement in Starfleet. I could detect some tense family dynamics at play, so I opted to stay clear. 
Ezri has been a bright light during an otherwise bleak time, and the spirits of the crew have declined in her absence. My heart especially goes out to Ensign Finok, who is most severely affected by the changes in Ezri because of the budding romance that had been developing between them. 
All this keeps me awake at night, wondering if I truly made the right call in having the symbiont placed in Ezri. Trill culture is very important to the Federation, and the Dax lifeform is particularly valuable. But Ezri was not prepared to be joined, nor did she ever desire it. She is a very independent-minded young woman who does not tie herself to tradition. Yes, I gave Ezri the ultimate choice to decide whether to be joined - but did I really give her a choice? Did I not force this decision upon her under very tense circumstances? I don't know if there is a right or wrong answer to this dilemma, but I do know this: Ezri is embarking upon an extraordinary journey that no other species can experience. She is stronger than she realizes, and I'm confident that Ezri Dax will make her mark on the universe in grand fashion. 

Reference: Prodigal Daughter, The Dogs of War, What You Leave Behind
Played by Nicole deBeor. She was present for the last season of Deep Space 9.
Information provided by:
The Continuum, www.startrek.com, @2002 2006 CBS Studios, Paramount Pictures
Star Trek in Sound and Vision, www.stinsv.com, @2003 Dave & Richard


