PERSONNEL: Rene Echevarria - Supervising Producer - Star Trek: Deep Space Nine; Executive Story Editor - Star Trek: The Next Generation

A native of Florida, Rene Echevarria graduated from Duke University in 1984 with a degree in History. He had originally intended to follow in his father's footsteps and become a doctor, but while in college he discovered the love of the theatre. During the mid to late 80s, he acted in several plays put on by the Circle Repertory Lab Company. He also co-wrote the play "Prepared", with Kristin McCloy in 1988. It would go on to be performed at that year's Edinburgh Festival. 
While he was waiting tables in New York City in 1989, a spec script he submitted to Star Trek: The Next Generation entitled "The Offspring", would eventually earn him a spot on the writing staff. He would go on to write several more well-received episodes, including "I, Borg" and "Lower Decks". For the 6th Season, he was moved up to story editor; and then to executive story editor for the 7th and final season, the year that the series earned an Emmy nomination for Outstanding Drama Series. 
When the TNG cast made the jump to the film series, Mr. Echevarria moved over to Rick Berman and Michael Piller's oft titled "darker series", Star Trek: Deep Space Nine, which was about to begin its 3rd Season under the creative control of Ira Steven Behr. He began as a producer. By the series 7th and final season, he had earned the title of supervising producer. Along the way he earned two Hugo nominations for Best Dramatic Presentation. The first for co-writing "The Visitor" with Michael Taylor, and the second for co-writing "Trials and Tribble-ations" with Ronald D. Moore. 
During the 1999-2000 television season, he served as a supervising producer on Glenn Gordon Caron's Saturn Award winning SF/Fantasy series, Now and Again. Though critically acclaimed, CBS cancelled the series after only one season. 
For the 2000-2001 television season, he moved over to the FOX Network. He currently serves as a co-executive producer on James Cameron's SF/Fantasy series, Dark Angel. This gig has the added bonus of giving Mr. Echevarria the opportunity to develop his own projects for FOX. 

Information provided by:
Star Trek Continuum, www.startrek.com, @2002 Paramount Pictures