PERSONNEL: G'Relk, House of G'Relk, House of Duras
Advocate, House of Duras, Qo'noS

A Klingon attorney and social and legal expert that earned the respect of Ja'rod while that man tried to earn a place on the High Council. G'Relk was retained by Ja'rod to help him acquire incriminating evidence against Ja'rod's enemies and to point out that information to the Council; causing the adversaries to loose support from other Houses and forcing the recipient to fight for honor; mostly loosing in death. G'Relk's association with Ja'rod helped him earn a position that allowed him to speak before Circuit Councils; up a level from the normal work in District Councils, but he was denied any rights to speak to the High Council with his low standing in Klingon society. G'Relk accepted an offer by Ja'rod to become part of his House; which earned him the status necessary to speak before the supreme ruling body. 
G'Relk was married before his House merged with the other, and his wife and he had a son; Tocheck. His wife died soon after their child's birth from complications resulting from the pregnancy. Tocheck spent all of his free time training his son in the ways of combat, like typical Klingon children are. But when he reached his age of acsension, Duras, the child of Ja'rod, suggested that the House of Ja'rod needed a family physician; so Ja'rod, acting as g'ArtOl, required that Tocheck enter training for medicine. 
While Ja'rod never attained a position as Councilor, he did manage to earn enough prestige that his son, Duras, was able to. G'Relk represented the child through all of his engagements and fought to earn him his place on the High Council. At that time G'Relk merged his House with that of the House of Duras, and he recommended that all other parties associated with the House of Ja'rod do the same.
G'Relk was needed by the House during an investigation after the massacre at Khitomer. Evidence pointed to Ja'rod being the traitor that revealed the transmission of the shield codes to the Romulans, so G'Relk knew he would have a hard fight to prove his House's innocence. When Duras, TuQ'leth, and K'mpec conspired to protect the secret of Ja'rod, they manufactured new evidence that implicated Mogh instead. G'Relk acquired the new information and used it in the High Council's discussions which convinced the non-conspiring Councilors to shame the defunct House of Mogh. Of course they thought the House was defunct when no survivors of that family were found on the outpost when Klingon forces arrived. It would be years later that Worf and Kern, sons of Mogh, would turn up. G'Relk won the case for the House of Duras but was relieved of service by K'mpec. The Chancellor knew the truth and lost all respect for the advocate when that man failed to learn the truth of their deception. He pressured Duras to "retire" the advocate from active service and require only small duties of him.
G'Relk spent many years on the Duras compound, resolving small disputes between families associated with the House, simple legal matters as "Wills & Testaments" and similar functions. He was consulted many times by Tocheck and other members of the House about trying to disband the House of Duras following the death of Duras; then again after the deaths of Lursa and B'Etor; and finally after the disgrace of Toral. G'Relk assumed the function of g'ArtOl for the House, but was unable to function in any substantial way to prevent the House from loosing honor. He refused a request by his son; who then made his own failed attempt, to petition the High Council to disband the House and issue property and status to those who currently make up the House.

Reference: Dargo's Commission
Information provided by:
Starfleet Academy, www.geocities.com/starfleet_academy_2373, @2000 Kenn Ferguson
