PERSONNEL: Elim Garak
Ex-agent, Obsidian Order, Deep Space 9

The smooth-talking, self-professed "plain and simple tailor" was Deep Space 9's lone Cardassian resident, exiled there upon Starfleet's arrival. His quarters were Chamber 901 on Habitat Level H-3.
Garak was the son of Obsidian Order chief Enabran Tain. Ironically, it was Tain who gave the order to have Garak exiled to Terok Nor. Garak was exiled after being forced to betray his father/mentor, and they parted bitterly. Garak spent much of his life desperately trying to please his father, although Tain kept his son at arm's length. Tain's planned return to power led to a failed assassination attempt on Garak, but the tailor had his shop blown up to focus attention on the Flaxian sent to kill him; Garak was the only one of five targets with data harmful to Tain to survive. Even in exile, Garak never gave up hope of eventual political rehabilitation. Although Tain had been responsible for Garak's exile and even tried to have Garak killed, Garak found isolation so bitter that in 2371 he jumped at the opportunity to serve again with Tain. Garak participated in Tain's disastrous joint attack by the Obsidian Order and the Romulan Tal Shiar against the Founders of the Dominion. Garak was the only Cardassian survivor of that battle. It was only in 2373, when Tain was on his deathbed in a Jem'Hadar prison camp, that he confessed to Garak that he was proud of his son.
Garak's own clouded history as an OO agent, coupled with the typical Cardassian penchant for convoluted intrigue, often put him at odds with some of his own people, including agent Corbin Entek and Gul Toran, whom he killed on the spot, and Gul Dukat, whose father he had tortured and killed years before. While still a member of the Obsidian Order, Garak had volunteered to have a cranial implant placed into his skull, to help him resist torture if captured by an enemy. Garak found exiled life on Terok Nor (later Deep Space 9) to be intolerable, so he activated the cranial implant and left it on. The implant served as a powerful narcotic on which Garak became physically dependent until 2370, when the unit malfunctioned, nearly costing Garak his life. Dr. Bashir was able to remove the device. But the search for parts brought about heavy criticism on those making the inquiries into the supplies. It also acquired the attention of Tain who refused to provide help for Garak's life. 
On Deep Space 9 he struck up an early friendship with the young Dr. Julian Bashir, and later came to respect Odo as well, especially after their witnessing of Tain's disastrous Cardassian-Romulan debacle against the Founders Homeworld in 2371. His rage over being dismissed by the Female Changeling led to his abortive plan to bomb their new homeworld while a guest aboard U.S.S. Defiant, but the act drew a six-month sentence from Sisko. Later he helped free twinned prisoners from his father's Dominion prison camp despite his claustrophobia. Ironically, he became enamored of Dukat's half-Bajoran daughter Tora Ziyal in 2372 during her stay on DS9, after he decided he could trust her with a rare show of vulnerability, much to both Kira and Dukat's annoyance. 
Garak knows fluent Klingon. He enjoyed raising Edosian orchids as a hobby. His experience with plants proved to be of value when he served as a gardener at the Cardassian Embassy on Romulus. Oddly enough, there were an unusual number of accidental deaths among high-ranking Romulan officials while Garak served on Romulus. spent over a year as the "gardener" of the Cardassian Embassy on Romulus during a year of many Romulans' mysterious deaths, and dislikes hand-to-hand fighting. 
Despite his exile, he still has friends on Cardassia who relay information. He had hoped to end his exile with acts of valor, but Dukat's prominence at every turn of events has hampered that. Garak's participation in the Cardassian underground was crucial to the defeat of the Dominion in 2375. Garak returned briefly to Cardassian in 2371 to help rescue Kira Nerys, who had been taken prisoner by the Obsidian Order. He was finally able to return to his homeworld at that time, but sadly it lay in ruins after the Dominion campaign of terror against his people. 
In the mirror universe, Elim Garak was first officer of the alternate Terok Nor in 2370. In 2371, the mirror Garak tortured and killed the mirror Rom after the Ferengi revealed a Terran rebellion plan to get the mirror Jennifer Sisko away from Terok Nor. He was later disgraced by the Intendant, Kira Nerys, which brought about the wrath of the Klingon overlord, Worf. His punishment included wearing a dog collar and a chain for the amusement of the Klingon warriors.

Reference: Crossover, The Wire, Through the Looking Glass, Past Prologue, Cardassians, Broken Link, The Die Is Cast, Improbable Cause, Profit & Loss, For the Cause, Second Skin, In Purgatory's Shadow, Civil Defense, The Way of the Warrior, A Stitch in Time, Front Lines
Played by Andrew Robinson.
Information provided by:
Star Trek Continuum, www.startrek.com, @2002 Paramount Pictures
Star Trek Encyclopedia, www.simonsays.com/st, @1997 Pocket Books
Star Trek in Sound and Vision, www.stinsv.com, @2003 Dave & Richard


