PERSONNEL: Christopher Hobson
Commander, executive officer, U.S.S. Sutherland

After graduating from the Starfleet Academy, Chris was posted as an ensign to the U.S.S. Aiello for a five-year exploration mission as the navigation officer. During the mission he was promoted to lieutenant jg and full lieutenant and served as operations officer.
After the mission ended he was transferred to the U.S.S. Sutherland, still in Spacedock and awaiting to be commissioned. Before the ship was fully ready it was taken into active duty and assigned to serve in the armada sent to blockade Romulan smugglers interfering with the Klingon Civil War. Chris was the most senior officer aboard until Captain Picard, mission commander, assigned his third officer, Lieutenant Commander Data to command the starship. Chris served as first officer during this mission. He was not comfortable, however, with the appointment of an android to command and requested a transfer off the ship. Data denied the request, in which Chris resisted other orders he was given in direct defiance of the android. Data never filed any grievances of the events, but several staff officers noted the events in their logs and reports. His actions became well known even though they were never officially filed.
The Sutherland was assigned to front line duty during the Dominion War and quickly earned the reputation of being the "party ship of the fleet" for their excellent rescue record. Under the command of Captain Shelby, Chris became promoted to full commander and served as first officer. Upon the death of Shelby, Chris became acting captain of the vessel until it returned to Earth. His field promotion was rescinded and he was restored to the title of first officer by Starfleet Command. The ship was then assigned to the Starfleet Academy to be used as a training vessel.
His insubordination and prejudice against artificial life forms has prevented him from being offered the command of a starship. Still aboard the Sutherland, he does not serve under a captain; but to a visiting Admiral, Alynna Nechayev, who officially commands the starship during missions. 

Reference: Redemption, Starfleet Academy series
Played by Timothy Carhart. When the Starfleet Academy series was being created it was felt that some characters from the TV shows needed to be "crossed over" into the books to help make the connection with canon material. When the decision to use the Sutherland was made, the only named officer from the episode was researched and noted that he had not been mentioned again; indicating that his story was still an open slate and available for use with little chance of contradictory information.
Information provided by:
The Continuum, www.startrek.com, @2002 Paramount Pictures
The Encyclopedia, www.simonsays.com/st, @1997 Pocket Books, Michael & Denise Okuda, Debbie Mirek
Starfleet Academy, www.geocities.com/starfleet_academy_2373, @2000 Kenn Ferguson

