PERSONNEL: K'mpec
Chancellor, government leader, Qo'noS

Chancellor of the Klingon High Council who resided over that body longer than anyone else in history, using an iron hand to maintain peace within the council and the empire itself. One of K'mpec's greatest political challenges came in 2366, when evidence emerged implicating the late Jar'od, father of council member Duras, of having committed treason. The politically powerful Duras attempted to suppress the fact that his father had betrayed his people to the Romulans at Khitomer. K'mpec feared that exposing Duras would plunge the empire into civil war, so he gave tacit support to a plan whereby the late Mogh would be blamed for the massacre. K'mpec did not realize that the Mogh's sons, Worf and Kurn, would return to the Klingon homeworld to challenge this injustice, an appeal that K'mpec was not willing to hear in open council. K'mpec eventually agreed to allow Worf to accept discommendation, sparing both of Mogh's sons from death, while retaining some semblance of peace in the High Council. 
K'mpec was murdered in 2367, apparently poisoned with Veridium Six poison by Duras, who sought to succeed K'mpec as council leader. Under Klingon custom, such a killing was without honor because the killer did not show his face to the victim. Seeking to protect his empire from leadership by such a dishonorable person, K'mpec took the highly unorthodox step of appointing a non-Klingon, Starfleet Captain Jean-Luc Picard, as his Arbiter of Succession. K'mpec was succeeded by Gowron, a political newcomer.

FAMILY: 
Father: Koord, General

Reference: Sins of the Father, Reunion
Played by Charles Cooper, who also played General Koord in "The Final Frontier." The connection between Koord and K'mpec is conjectural but would explain the likeness.
Information provided by:
The Continuum, www.startrek.com, @2002 Paramount Pictures
The Encyclopedia, www.simonsays.com/st, @1997 Pocket Books, Michael & Denise Okuda, Debbie Mirek
Star Trek in Sound & Vision, www.stinsv.com, @2003 Dave & Richard
LCARS Communciations Network, www.lcarscom.net, @2002 Sean Stevenson
