PERSONNEL: Khan Noonien Singh

One of history's most notorious dictators, Khan Noonien Singh was a genetically-bred human "superman" of Earth's India in the late 20th century who died in the 23rd century amid another "experiment" gone wrong. Rising to power among others of his kind, his ambition helped foment the Eugenics Wars that involved much of Earth's Third World. Finally facing defeat, he and dozens of followers escaped in the S.S. Botany Bay, a DY-100 vessel modified as a sleeper ship which drifted in intersteller space for over two centuries, until it was discovered in 2267 by the U.S.S. Enterprise. With his fellow survivors, Khan attempted to seize that starship but failed, and he and his people were sentenced by Captain Kirk to tame the wild M-Class world of Ceti Alpha V. Among those exiled was Lt. Marla McGivers, an Enterprise historian who fell in love with Khan and initially assisted him; ultimately, though, she refused to betray Kirk and her shipmates in the tyrant's abortive takeover. 
On Ceti Alpha V, the band of refugees thought their dream of conquering an entire planet would come true, but six months after being left there, the star system's sixth planet exploded, and the shock wave wreaked havoc on planet V's ecosystem, making it a desert wasteland. In 2285, the embittered Khan commandeered the U.S.S. Reliant and hijacked the top-secret Genesis Device in a plan to exact vengeance against James T. Kirk. Khan failed to defeat his old foe, and died when he detonated the cataclysmic matter-reorganizing terraforming device, annihilating the Reliant. 

TIMELINE: 
1952: Born
1992: Ruled 1/4 of Earth's population
1996: Escaped Earth aboard the S.S. Botany Bay, sleeper ship
2267: Resuscitated from cryogenic sleep by the U.S.S. Enterprise
2267: Marooned on Ceti Alpha V
2285: Commandeered the U.S.S. Reliant and attempted to seek revenge against Admiral James Kirk
2285: Died

Reference: Space Seed, The Wrath of Khan
Played by Ricardo Montalban.
Information provided by:
The Continuum, www.startrek.com, @2002 2006 CBS Studios, Paramount Pictures
The Encyclopedia, www.simonsays.com/st, @1997 Pocket Books, Michael & Denise Okuda, Debbie Mirek
LCARS Communications Network, www.lcarscom.net, @2002 Sean Stevenson
Star Trek in Sound and Vision, www.stinsv.com, @2003 Dave & Richard
