PERSONNEL: Harry Kim
Ensign, operations officer, U.S.S. Voyager

Kim had an especially promising career in engineering and analytical operations when his life was apparently cut short along with 151 fellow crewmembers on the ill-fated Voyager. Kim, who was engaged at the time of his disappearance, had played clarinet in the Julliard Youth Symphony and was editor of the Starfleet Academy newspaper for one full year, where his series on the mounting Maquis problem fostered much campus debate. 
Though he enjoyed a stellar academic career and welcomed the challenges and adventures of exploration, Kim was a bit nervous about living up to his own expectations. 
Fresh from Starfleet Academy and somewhat naive, my Ops officer feels his loss of home and family as a raw wound so early in his career. His genius nearly got us home through a micro-wormhole if not for a time technicality, and he has transported halfway home with the Sikarians. He has been "devoured" by vengeful sentient energy beings trapped in his Beowulf holo-program, survived the "afterlife" of the Vhnori, and returned from the dead on the quantum level as well — since he is actually now a twin from a duplicate Voyager that self-destructed. I was also gratified that he helped retrieve the Doctor from his damaged irradiated program and that he fought temptation to stay with the "'37s." 
Like myself, Kim too is estranged from a fiancee, but he became instant friends with Paris and stuck with him despite his problems. In return, I believe he has been good-naturedly badgered to give up Libby's memory in return for shipboard dates. I do know he is preparing a new orchestral program with Lt. Susan Nicoletti and her oboe (although Ensign Baytart next door does not care for the amplified clarinet sound). I have been a bit disappointed in his knowledge of recent history: when mindful of the Mars colony's founding date he had never heard of aviation pioneer and fellow Terran Amelia Earhart and was vague on the advent and predecessor to hover cars.
Harry Kim's designation in 2374 after Seven of Nine organized a work detail on U.S.S. Voyager . Kim resisted becoming a quasi-drone so Seven demoted him to Two of Ten. 

Reference: Caretaker, et al VOY
Portrayed by Garrett Wang.
Information provided by:
The Continuum, www.startrek.com, @2006 CBS Studios
The Encyclopedia, www.simonsays.com/st, @1997 Pocket Books, Michael & Denise Okuda, Debbie Mirek
