PERSONNEL: Malachi, R.N.
Lieutenant, Co-Chief Medical Officer, U.S.S. Sutherland

The administrative department head of the medical ward on board the U.S.S. Sutherland. After the death of the former chief of staff a newly commissioned ensign, Dr. Ursula LaMoore, was offered the position since she had the most medical experience of any of the remaining medical staff; but Malachi submitted a protest to the ship's executive officer- acting captain Commander Christopher Hobson stating that he was the highest-ranking officer in the ward. After being reminded that as a nurse he is not medically allowed to make decisions that are necessary for patient health, and recognizing his valid point, Hobson decided to split up responsibilities between the two officers. Malachi is the head nurse for the department and is in charge of all inventory, scheduling, and department operations; while the head doctor would be responsible for patient care, mission briefings, and crew welfare.
Born on Mizar in #### to 
His psyche test reveals him to be a typical Mizarian a true pacifist, but more assertive than any other of his species. While he does not use a phaser, he has been known to carry a stun gun; which is actually an old type-1 hand phaser with a bad power cell that cannot transfer a full charge; only the stun setting. And Nurse Malachi has been known to use it on a few occasions where he was ordered to sedate hostile patients and he chose not to use a hypospray administered sedative. His assertiveness has also given him more career drive than others of his species, shown in his unexpected protest of posting Dr. LaMoore as the ship's CMO, and offering his own services for the position. His assertiveness has actually gone too far a few times too. Former CMO, Dr. ????? was forced to discipline Malachi for administering medicines to patients without a doctors prior orders. In each case the decision was agreed upon after the fact so no lives were ever in danger, but the insubordination of the issue, and the unethical nature has placed his job in jeopardy. Only at the request of the prior CMO and the lack of any complaints from the new CCMO has he been allowed to continue to serve aboard the starship.

TIMELINE:

FAMILY:
Father:
Mother:

COURSEWORK:

Reference: Starfleet Academy series
Information provided by:
Starfleet Academy, www.geocities.com/starfleet_academy_2373, @2000 Kenn Ferguson
