PERSONNEL: Math'enQ
General, Klingon Defense Forces, Qo'noS

A leader of a very influencial House in the Klingon government. Since he himself was born a second class citizen he was never able to become part of the High Council, but was able to earn himself a position as General in the military and now is head of the largest training camp on Qo'noS. He earned much of his influence by earning higher and higher rank in the military organization, which was fueled by his recruitment techniques for new warriors into the force. Many citizens who were originally deemed not worthy of joining the army because of their social position were given the chance to join Houses with Math'enQ, which would then earn them his endorsement and they would be able to use his name to gain entrance.
The plan worked well, as Math'enQ manages one of the largest Houses in the Empire. Math'enQ is also one of the most generous g'ArtOls, allowing those who request to cede, the opportunity to do so. This is how Martok got his start in Klingon culture. He was not born of an honorable enough House and was denied entry into the Army. He took up Math'enQ on his offer to join his House. Martok then earned his position in the military and broke off to form his own House.
Having come from his own House, Math'enQ is a strong supporter of Martok and his political initiatives. He is also very supportive since they blend well with his own, equality for all Klingons. Math'enQ began accepting people into his House since he felt it was unfair to discriminate against people based on their family lineage. He took steps to allow people to become more equal, at least those entering the military.
Math'enQ still manages the second largest House, second to the House of Kahless which includes all of the clerics, and has been considered for a post on the High Council by Martok. Not having any rights by birth, Math'enQ's nomination is being stalled by the other Councilors hoping that Martok will drop the appointment. But an alliance with the House of Math'enQ is considered to be very important in disputes since he has such a large following of loyal and trained warriors.

Reference: Dargo's Commission
Information provided by:
Starfleet Academy, www.geocities.com/starfleet_academy_2373, @2000 Kenn Ferguson
