PERSONNEL: Kaldo n'Erliarch
Cadet 1st class, security division, Starfleet Academy

The grandson of a Federation Ambassador, Stephaleh n'Erliarch. He was born on Andor in 2357 to Jonas and Antife n'Erliarch as their third child following Grefor and Niche. Being part of a diplomatic house, Kaldo was often brought up in the presence of varied races and with the politically correct behavior. He did not partake of the more aggressive games and teachings of many of the other Andorians.
Kaldo traveled much as a child, often to the out-world of Kirlos where his grandmother was assigned in conjunction with the K'Vin and the Sullurh. Other frequent trips took him to Paris, France, Earth to see the office of the Federation President and to meet many presidents including Jaresh Inyo; and he made trips to Vulcan, their closest planetary neighbor.
Kaldo was accepted into the Starfleet Academy in early 2373 for the coming fall semester just before the Breen attacked the Earth. He arrived on Earth early, and ended up working in the Andorian ambassador's office. He began his Academy Orientation course while he continued to fill in at the office on the side. 
His Psyche test reveals that he is strong willed, a traditional trait for Andorians. But his lack of traditional Andorian schooling has clearly affected his self-esteem. He feels isolated from other Andorians and fear that they will not see him as an equal, an inferior citizen from his lack of assertiveness. It is felt that his direction in the Academy, toward security, is an attempt to become more physical and closer to his perceptionsof  the normal Andorian.

TIMELINE:
2357: Born on Andor
2373: Entered Starfleet Academy

FAMILY:
Father: 	Jonas n'Erliarch			Diplomatic courier
Mother:	Antife n'Erliarch			Diplomatic staffer
Brother:	Grefor n'Erliarch		2350	Interplanetary trade broker
Sister:	Niche n'Erliarch		2354	Immigrations officer
Paternal:
Father:
Mother:	Stephaleh n'Erliarch		Federation Ambassador to Kirlos

COURSEWORK:
Summer semester, 2373, freshman year
Orientation
Field Experience
Fall semester, 2373, freshman year
Self Defense
Targeting
Introduction to Communications
Prime Directive
LCARS
Protocol
Winter semester, 2374, freshman year
First Contact
SEWG
Coded Frequencies
Astronomy I
Federation History
Federation Government

Reference: Starfleet Academy series
This character was developed since it was felt that the series needed to feature more aliens than other Star Trek series have. As a written series, budgetary concerns for costumes and make-up would not be necessary so the stories should feature a wider array of such characters. Andorians were selected long before the Enterprise series began featuring them in a couple episodes. They were chosen since they were clearly a member race of the Federation but not seen much, nor discussed in depth in any former Trek venue.
Information provided by:
Starfleet Academy, www.geocities.com/starfleet_academy_2373, @2000 Kenn Ferguson
