PERSONNEL: Alynna Nechayev
Fleet Admiral, Operations officer, Starfleet Headquarters
 
By-the-book Starfleet commander who is oil to Picard's water. Nechayev has been at the center of Cardassian, Borg and Maquis policy-making and serves Starfleet and Federation interests to her utmost. 
Then-Vice Admiral Nechayev was responsible for the handling of the Celtris III incident in 2369. Nechayev blasted Picard for his decision to return the Borg known as Hugh (see file) to the Borg collective without also sending an invasive program developed by Enterprise-D personnel. Picard protested that using the weapon, effectively a genocidal weapon of mass destruction, would be a violation of Starfleet principles, but Nechayev, fearing a mass invasion by the Borg, ordered him to use the weapon if another opportunity presented itself. Nechayev was promoted to Fleet Admiral in 2370. During that
year, she was involved with the creation of the Federation-Cardassian Treaty. Later, she ordered Captain Picard to evacuate the settlers from Dorvan V. Late in 2370, Nechayev once again visited the Enterprise-D to discuss the Maquis situation. She asked Captain Picard to persuade Ro Laren (see file) to infiltrate the Maquis. She also traveled to station Deep Space 9 in 2370, to discuss problems maintaining the treaty, including the troublesome Maquis.
Senior Starfleet officer obtaining the rank of Admiral. Born in 23?? to Boris ?? and Philamina Yeltsin in Prague, Czechoslovakia, Earth. She was an only child for her parents. She married ?? and had 2 children, ?? and ??
Alynna worked for Starfleet Intelligence for most of her career. A major part was focused on the Cardassian government. Her work here would make her well suited for treaty negotiations years later.
Alynna made a few special favors for Commander Mackenzie Calhoun after he had a spurn with Admiral Edward Jellico. She recruited Calhoun to perform work, outside of Starfleet, that couldn't be done officially as part of the lofty organization. As an Admiral, Alynna was responsible fore the handling of the Celtris III incident in 2369. She took an interest in Borg incursion after the demise of Admiral Hayes. She reprimanded Captain Jean- Luc Picard for his decision to return the Borg known as Hugh to the collective without including an invasive program developed by his starship's personnel. Picard protested the action stating that the use of the program would be a violation of Federation and Starfleet principles since the program could be considered an effective weapon of genocidal mass destruction. Still fearing a future Borg invasion, Alynna reaffirmed her order to use the weapon if another opportunity presented itself.
Alynna was promoted to Fleet Admiral in 2370 and given command of the Bajoran sector which includes Deep Space Nine, the Demilitarized Zone and Cardassian Affairs. During that year she was involved with the creation of the Cardassian- Federation treaty. As part of the treaty she ordered Captain Picard to evacuate settlers from Dorvan V, a planet ceded to the Cardassians. She again visited the USS Enterprise to discuss the Maquis situation, in which she developed a plan to use Ensign Ro Laren, a Bajoran officer, to infiltrate the Maquis and provide intelligence back to Starfleet. Following a terrorist attack on the Bok'Nor, a Cardassian Freighter believed to have been carrying weapons to Cardassian colonies within the Demilitarized Zone, she traveled to Deep Space Nine to discuses problems about the Maquis with the two ranking officers along the DMZ, Commander Benjamin Sisko of Deep Space Nine, and Commander Calvin Hudson of the Federation colonies with the DMZ.
Following the Dominion War, Alynna began to use the U.S.S. Sutherland as her means of transportation when she needed to travel from Earth, The starship, assigned to Starfleet Academy, was given a new crew except for its captain.
Alynna left Commander Hobson in charge of the vessel while it was orbiting Earth, and took command of the ship herself when it left orbit. She recruited a new senior science officer, Lieutenant Commander Kene Chisholm, a computer specialist she has helped out career wise for many years. She also posted a new support vessel to the Sutherland, the U.S.S. Chari, an enhanced sensor runabout; modified by designs created by Chisholm. 

TIMELINE:
: Born
: Entered Starfleet Academy
: Graduated from the Academy and commissioned as an Ensign aboard the U.S.S.
: Promoted to Lieutenant and transferred to Starfleet Intelligence.
: Promoted to Admiral.
: Transferred to Starfleet Operations.
: Assumed command of Borg tactics after the death of Admiral Hayes.
: Authorized Starfleet involvement against the Maquis.

FAMILY:
Father:
Mother:
Paternal:
Father:
Mother:
Maternal:
Father:
Mother:

Reference: I, Borg, Chain of Command, Descent, Journey's End, Preemptive Strike, The Maquis, House of Cards, Starfleet Academy series
Portrayed by Natalie Nogulich.
Information provided by:
The Continuum, www.startrek.com, @2002 Paramount Pictures
LCARS Communications Network, www.lcarscom.net, @2002 Sean Stevenson
Starfleet Academy, www.geocities.com/starfleet_academy_2373, @2000 Kenn Ferguson
