PERSONNEL: Keiko Ishikawa O'Brien
civilian, Botanist, Earth

PLACE OF BIRTH: Japan, Earth
ORIGIN: Human
ASSIGNMENT: Earth
Keiko Ishikawa, a Starfleet botanist, married fellow crew member Miles Edward O'Brien (see file) in 2367. Their wedding, held aboard the Enterprise-D in the Ten-Forward Lounge, was a mixture of Japanese and Irish traditions. Keiko gave birth to a girl, Molly O'Brien, a year later. Molly was born in Ten-Forward during a ship-wide systems failure. Keiko was briefly reduced to a child after passing through an energy field in 2369. Keiko accepted a transfer to station Deep Space 9 in 2369 when her husband was assigned there as chief of operations. Keiko was appalled with living conditions on the station, but remained there for the sake of her husband's career. Keiko and her husband visited Earth that year for her mother's 100th birthday. As a child, Keiko helped her grandmother with her Japanese brush paintings. It had been the young Keiko's special task to fill the old chipped cup that her grandmother, whom she called Obachan, used to clean the brush. Keiko found adapting to life on the station difficult. She was dissatisfied by the lack of professional opportunities on the station for a botanist, and was concerned about the lack of educational facilities for her daughter. Keiko was able to address this last issue when then-Commander Sisko granted her permission to establish a schoolroom on the station. Keiko operated the school until early 2371, when enrollment dropped dramatically because of fears of a possible Dominion attack. Shortly thereafter she accepted an assignment as chief botanist on an agrobiology expedition on Bajor. The assignment kept Keiko and her daughter, Molly, away from the station for much of that year. In 2372, Keiko became pregnant with her second child. Later that year she accomplished her assignment on Bajor, and she and her daughter returned to live on station Deep Space 9. Keiko's second pregnancy nearly ended disastrously when she was seriously injured in an accident aboard the Runabout Volga during a botanical survey mission to Torad IV. Dr. Bashir (see file) saved her life, but it was necessary to remove her unborn child and implant it into the body of then-Major Kira Nerys (see file). Keiko and Miles subsequently invited Kira to live with them in their quarters so that they could help care for her while she carried their child to term. While Kira carried her child, Keiko was captured by an alien entity known as an Pah-wraith who briefly gained control of her mind and body. The Pah-wraith had intended to use Keiko in an elaborate plan to kill the Bajoran Prophets. Fortunately, the plan failed, and Keiko was released from the entity. In 2373, Kira delivered Kirayoshi O'Brien in a traditional Bajoran birthing ceremony.
FAMILY: 
Husband, Starfleet Chief Petty Officer Miles O'Brien 
Daughter, Molly O'Brien
Son, Kirayoshi O'Brien

Reference: Data's Day, Disaster, Rascals, Violations, Emissary, Dax, A Man Alone, The House of Quark, Fascination, Accession, Body Parts, The Assignment, The Begotten.
Portrayed by Rosalind Chao and Caroline Junko King (during Rascals).
Information provided by:
The Continuum, www.startrek.com, @2002 2006 CBS Studios, Paramount Pictures
The Encyclopedia, www.simonsays.com/st, @1997 Pocket Books, Michael & Denise Okuda, Debbie Mirek
Star Trek in Sound & Vision, www.stinsv.com, @2003 Dave & Richard
