PERSONNEL: Molly O'Brien

BORN: 2368 (SD 45156)
PLACE OF BIRTH: Ten-Forward Lounge, U.S.S. Enterprise NCC-1701-D
ORIGIN: Human

Miles and Keiko O'Brien's daughter, was born a month premature in 2368 in Ten-Forward with Worf as midwife during a crisis on the U.S.S. Enterprise ca. SD 45156. Despite a mobile life with her Starfleet career parents, she seems to be a well-adjusted, happy and bright child. She faced major danger soon after her birth when she was one of the hostages taken in Ten-Forward, and her crying repeatedly drew the attention of her alien-possessed father. When Keiko was taken hostage for a room transfer, Molly was left with another woman hostage. Coming to DS9 with the family in 2369, she was already age three later that year - perhaps by the oddities of warp physics. She missed her mother and was ready to go to school already once Keiko started one after her concern over the drabness of DS9 life and the absence of healthy structures for its resident youth. Within a year, at least, she was able to stay at a DS9-based day care center. Showing early art talent, she made her daddy a cup as a welcome home present from his near-fatal T'Lani III mission, and loves to draw and write with colored markers. At the age of 4, she enjoyed her dad reading "Rumpelstiltskin" to her; she has a stuffed Klingon targ toy named Piggy, and received a crystal pendant necklace Kai Opaka gave her father as an unexpected gift. She once played with the Cardassian orphan Rugal all afternoon - an act which at the time made her father uneasy. Molly was told only that she's "going on a trip" when DS9 was evacuated as Jaro's coup forces approached; she evacuated the station again with her mother and all the rest but for a skeleton crew during the violent Denorious Belt plasma storms of SD 47182. Later in the year, ca. SD 47944, she was age 5 when an alternate universe version of her father was encountered by Bashir; she had known the Paradans' fake O'Brien is not her daddy, and stays with family friends, the Fredericksons, on its second night home. A few weeks later, for her parents' first vacation ever without her, she stayed with another DS9 family, the Petersons; her mother wisecracked that she likes them better than her own parents. Molly again left with her mother when Keiko took a six-month job as chief botanist on an agrobotany survey of Bajor's unmapped Janitza Mountains in 2371-72. Two months went by before their first visit home for two days during the Bajoran Gratitude Festival, and thanks to the candy fed her by Lwaxana Troi she vomited into her daddy's lap as soon as she stepped out of the airlock on DS9. She finally returned with her mom from the survey later, only to spill the beans about her new expected sibling. Molly had a big year in 2373 with the unusual coming of her new brother Kirayoshi and the "adoption" of "Aunt Nerys" to carry him to term, but to all outward aspects she has adjusted well, thanks to the example shown by her father and mother -- aside from a bout of sleeping with them for over two months as a reassurance to her pace in the family against this newcomer. Unlike her father's replication by Paradan rebels in 2371, it seems unlikely that Molly had little clue to the alien consciousness hijacking her mother's form earlier in 2373. She has safely stayed over with another neighbor family on the station, the Davises, and then joined her mother for a trip to visit her grandparents on Earth only a month before her brother arrived.

FAMILY: 
Father: Starfleet Chief of Operations Miles O'Brien
Mother, Starfleet Botanist Keiko O'Brien
Brother, Kirayoshi O'Brien

Reference: Disaster
ortrayed by Hana Hatae and Michelle Krusiec (18 year old version)
Information provided by:
The Continuum, www.startrek.com, @2002 2006 CBS Studios, Paramount Pictures
The Encyclopedia, www.simonsays.com/st, @1997 Pocket Books, Michael & Denise Okuda, Debbie Mirek
