PERSONNEL: Miles Edward O'Brien
Master Chief Petty Officer, professor of Engineering, Starfleet Academy

BORN: 2328
PLACE OF BIRTH: Dublin, Ireland, Earth
ORIGIN: Human

Starfleet engineer, formerly chief of operations at station Deep Space Nine, and a transporter chief aboard the U.S.S. Enterprise-D. O'Brien's family resided in Dublin, Ireland, on Earth. His ancestors included noted 20th-century union leader Sean Aloysius O'Brien and 11th-century Irish King Brian Boru. Prior to being assigned to Deep Space 9 in 2369, Miles Edward O'Brien had been operating transporters for some 22 years, the last six of which were spent on the Enterprise-D. As of 2372, he had been decorated 15 times by Starfleet Command. Miles, who was born in the month of September, grew up with two brothers. During his youth, O'Brien did poorly in mechanical aptitude tests, but his later skills belied his test scores. His father, Michael, wanted him to be a concert cellist, but two days before he was to start at the Aldebaran Music Academy, Miles signed up for Starfleet. Early in his Starfleet career, O'Brien had been the tactical officer aboard the U.S.S. Rutledge under the command of Captain Benjamin Maxwell. O'Brien's first experience with transporters came in 2347, when the Rutledge responded to the Cardassian massacre at planet Setlik III. O'Brien repaired a balky field transporter, preventing himself and 13 Starfleet personnel from becoming Cardassian prisoners of war. He also participated in the rescue of several survivors of that bloody massacre. The experience of Setlik III scarred O'Brien deeply, and he continued to harbor bitterness against the Cardassians for many years. He was rewarded for his resourcefulness by being promoted to Rutledge tactical officer. O'Brien was deathly afraid of spiders, until an incident where he had to crawl through a Jefferies tube past twenty Talarian hook spiders to perform a critical repair at Zayra IV. After that considerable act of courage, O'Brien said he wasn't quite so fearful of arachnids, and even kept a Lycosa tarantula named Christina as a pet. O'Brien once dislocated his left shoulder while kayaking on the holodeck. O'Brien was healed, almost miraculously, by a touch from the Zalkonian named John Doe. O'Brien married Keiko Ishikawa on stardate 44390 in a ceremony in the Ten-Forward Lounge aboard the Enterprise-D. Captain Jean-Luc Picard presided at the ceremony, and Data served as father of the bride. O'Brien became a father a year later when Molly O'Brien was born. O'Brien was deeply committed to his family, and was well aware of the risk that Starfleet duty entailed. He periodically recorded a "goodbye" message for his family, to be played in the event of his death. He recorded such a message every time he was about to go into battle, and as of early 2372, had done so 11 times. His second child, Kirayoshi O'Brien, was born in 2373. O'Brien was promoted and assigned to be chief of operations on station Deep Space 9 in 2369, and moved there with his wife and daughter. O'Brien's technical expertise and skill at improvisation proved invaluable, given the station's generally poor condition and the lack of technical resources at the distant post. O'Brien almost died in 2370 after being exposed to nanobiogenic gel while helping the T'Lani and Kellerun governments to neutralize their deadly harvester weapon. He drank coffee, Jamaican blend, double strong, double sweet. Later that year, O'Brien was assigned to assist in preparations for the peace talks between the Paradan government and the rebels with whom the government had been at war. The Paradan government abducted O'Brien and replaced him with a cloned replicant that was physically identical to O'Brien. The replicant, who was programmed by the government to assassinate members of the rebel negotiating team, was given O'Brien's memories, and had no way to know that he was not the original. O'Brien died of severe delta-series radioisotope contamination in 2371, when he was timeshifted several hours into a future in which the Romulan government destroyed Deep Space 9. The timeshifting was triggered by interaction of temporal displacement waves from a nearby cloaked Romulan warbird with the radioisotopes in O'Brien's body. Ironically, O'Brien's death made it possible for his future self to travel back in time to his original "present," where the future O'Brien successfully warned station personnel of the impending Romulan attack. The future O'Brien thereby effectively changed places with the present O'Brien, and continued his life in this altered reality. The alternate O'Brien from the future fit in well, showing virtually no difference from the original O'Brien. During a rather remarkable winning streak at darts, this O'Brien suffered a rotator cuff tear and was forced to have humeral socket replacement surgery. It ended his winning streak, but allowed him to finally complete his beloved kayaking program. In 2372, O'Brien was falsely accused of espionage by the Argrathi government and, as punishment, was implanted with memories of a 20-year prison sentence. After returning to Deep Space 9, O'Brien suffered mental stress and hallucinations caused by the implanted memories, pushing him to the brink of suicide. With help, O'Brien was able to cope with the incident. When Kira Nerys shared the O'Briens' quarters while she served as surrogate mother to their second child in 2373, both Nerys and Miles realized that they shared a mutual attraction. They nevertheless agreed to ignore their feelings. Besides engineer, husband, and father, O'Brien briefly served as a substitute schoolteacher, when his wife visited her mother on Earth. O'Brien's off-duty pastimes also included music, and he was seen playing the cello in a string quartet in Ten-Forward aboard the Enterprise-D on at least one occasion. O'Brien liked to kayak on the holodeck and holosuite, and enjoyed racquetball, although perhaps not quite so much as did Dr. Julian Bashir.
ACHIEVEMENTS, AWARDS: Decorated 15 times by Starfleet Command
FAMILY: Father, Michael, living in Dublin, Ireland, Earth; 2 brothers, names and whereabouts not on file; Wife, Keiko (Ishikawa) O'Brien, living on Deep Space 9; Daughter, Molly O'Brien, living on Deep Space 9;Son, Kirayoshi O'Brien living on Deep Space 9.

Place of birth: Killarney, Ireland, Earth
FAMILY: 
Father: Michael O'Brien
Mother: died 2368
Step mother: father remarried 2369
Wife: Keiko Ishikawa, married in 2367 in Ten-Forward, U.S.S. Enterprise
Daughter: Molly, born 2368
Son: Kirayoshi, born 2373

Security clearance: Level 1
Starfleet Career Summary 
2345 – Enrolled in Starfleet Academy. 
2346 – Enlisted as a non-commissioned officer in Starfleet. 
2347 – As young crewman posted to NCC-57295 U.S.S. Rutledge under Capt. Ben Maxwell, was decorated after clash with Cardassians on Setlik III and re-assigned by Maxwell as a bridge tactical officer. 
2364 – After serving on two more ships in the last two years, transferred to new U.S.S. Enterprise under Captain Jean-Luc Picard as relief flight control officer in command duty division and later as security in operations division. 
2365 – Re-assigned at chief petty officer rank to Enterprise transporter chief, usually posted in Transporter Room 3. 
2369 – Accepted offer as chief of operations at Deep Space Nine, onetime Cardassian mining station, under Cmdr. Ben Sisko. 
2370 – Helped eliminate "Harvester" weapon in T'Lani system, then falsely reported as dead. Abducted in Paradan system while arranging security measures for peace talks; replaced by replicant-assassin until rescued by Paradan rebels. Implicated by Cardassian government in Maquis arms-running activity, but cleared when conspiracy to frame him and discredit Federation was exposed. 
2371 – Averted destruction of DS9 and wormhole by Romulans during radiation-induced time-shifting condition (died during the incident, but was replaced by a "near-future" duplicate of self). 
2372 – Held by Argrathi government on charges of espionage and implanted with artificial memories of 20 years' imprisonment, causing severe emotional trauma, leading to temporary suspension of duty by Capt. Sisko. 
2373 – Helped to expose Changeling infiltrator in Klingon High Council. Travelled back in time to 2267 to help prevent timeline contamination by Arne Darvin. Deployed minefield at wormhole that effectively prevented further Dominion reinforcements from entering Alpha Quadrant.
(NOTE: By mid-2373, had been decorated at least 16 times for over 238 career engagements.) 
2374 – Served aboard Defiant during several months on front line of Dominion war. Participated in capture of Jem'Hadar vessel. Returned to DS9 as Chief of Operations when Federation retook station. Recruited by Starfleet Intelligence to infiltrate Orion Syndicate on Farius Prime, learning of joint Dominion/Syndicate plan to assassinate Klingon ambassador to Farius. Served aboard Defiant during Chin'toka offensive. 
2375 – Participated in successful Klingon mission to destroy Dominion shipyard at Monac. Turned up missing during unauthorized mission to investigate Orion Syndicate in Sappora System, until rescued by New Sydney Police. Served aboard U.S.S. Defiant during final battle of Dominion war. Accepted position as Professor of Engineering at Starfleet Academy, concluding service on DS9. 
Psychological Profile: Report of Starfleet Counselor Telnorri, Bajoran Sector 
The curly-headed Miles Edward O'Brien, who would become DS9's first Starfleet chief of operations as the latest chapter in a hard-working career, was born with a deep pride in his Irish ancestry, traced back to medieval King Brian Boru and 1902 American labor martyr Sean Aloysius O'Brien. The family, which also included two brothers, was living near a small town on Earth — most probably in Ireland — by the time he was of age, and his mother cooked unreplicated meat-and-potatoes meals. He was an ordinary child, getting a disciplinary swat from his father now and then and giving substitute teachers a rough time. He once owned a pup pesky for attention when locked up, yet peaceful by nature, timid for the life of even a mosquito. He also enjoyed building subspace transceiver models, along with ships in bottles, but actually scored in the lower third of his age group for mechanical aptitude. 
O'Brien joined Starfleet as an impulsive act two days before he was supposed to leave for the unwanted Aldebaran Music Academy to play cello, as his father had always wished. The elder O'Brien — who'd made him practice every day and sent in his recorded audition — was furious, but calmed down and later accepted his son's choice proudly. Even so, O'Brien got to be quite good at the cello, and has kept up his public playing; one of his favorite composers is Minezaki. In later life, his mother died in 2368, and his father remarried in the spring of 2369 to a woman his son had not yet met over a year later. 
Nearly a year after sign-up in 2346, though, he came face to face with death for the first time at age 18 as a member of the U.S.S. Rutledge under Capt. Maxwell, when he was forced to kill a Cardassian who jumped him on patrol on Setlik III after the massacre there during the border wars. The do-or-die pressure of that incident is what awakened his dormant interest in mechanics: he saved 13 men by getting a field transporter operational in less than 10 minutes with no prior knowledge — a cool-headed feat that led to his post as Maxwell's tactical officer. Since then he's used transporters for 22 years without an accident, and served until 2362 on that ship. 
Two years later and brief stints aboard two more ships, he was among the first crew aboard the new Galaxy-class Enterprise when it departed Utopia Planetia, serving in command division as a relief conn officer and later on the battle bridge after saucer separation en route to Deneb IV. After transferring to the gold tunic of the operations division during his first year, his favorite worksite on 1701-D became Transporter Room 3. 
Himself a brave man, he once admitted he'd be scared to try a Klingon exchange program as Riker once did, and later confided he most feared for his life during the Borg attack at Wolf 359. 
After proposing to her in her Arboretum on the Enterprise, he survived her bridal "cold feet" and married botanist Keiko Ishikawa with La Forge as his best man in Ten-Forward on SD 44390, or May 23, 2367; Data, who had introduced them, served as bridal escort. Keiko has tried to give him her green thumb as well as her neatness streak, both without success; he's become known as the "Black Thumb." He in turn had to adapt his meat-and-potatoes tastes to her bent for organic seafood; on duty he drinks hot coffee — Jamaican blend, double-strong, double-sweet — though he occasionally partakes in synthale. His onetime assistant Neela got him hooked on sweet jumja sticks. He dislikes most alien food, but relishes Starfleet combat rations. 
He became a father a year later when his daughter Molly was born, with a second child expected early in 2373. In 2370 the couple had taken their first vacation in five years — since the second year of the Enterprise-D mission — after O Brien was framed and nearly executed by the Cardassian government for a Maquis-related weapons incident. (Apparently, the trip home a year earlier for Keiko's mother's 100th birthday was not considered a vacation.) 
O'Brien's "promotion" and move to DS9 in 2369 as chief operations officer — the equivalent of chief engineer — was only reluctantly supported by Keiko, and the O'Briens were marked early on by gossip that Keiko was extremely unhappy; they had had squabbles, but have worked through them all and love each other and their children very much. Actually, O'Brien has offered to transfer at least twice — early on, and again when then-Vedek Winn attacked Keiko's secular school, but she turned him down and stood her ground. In 2369, a local incident thrust him into a role in a Bajoran village's ritual sirah but he was true to his wife and his down-to-earth nature there, as well as when a female Cardassian engineer mistook his irritation for flirting later. As a parent, he loves reading to Molly and recommended Sisko separate Nog's influence from Jake, whom he also tutored in mechanics at his father's request. 
Despite his family, O'Brien often agrees to go along on potentially fatal missions. In fact, more than any other DS9 senior officer, he has had numerous odd near-death experiences: given up for dead on a sabotaged T'Lani III peace mission; nearly killed while an unwitting replicant is substituted in his place; and actually "replaced" by his doppelganger from five hours into an alternate future when he died of radiation poisoning. During the station's near-self-destruct crisis, Jake Sisko saved O'Brien's life by pulling him from a fiery plasma-filled conduit. All these incidents took place within about a year of each other. 
Along with his musical and mechanical background O'Brien remains quite an athlete — an ideal relief for the long hours and hard work he puts in. A kayak enthusiast, he has had a holo-program since 2364 during his Enterprise assignment — though he has never finished it, dislocating his shoulder six times in the process as of late 2371. It's his favorite activity after work and family, and he sings "ancient human sea chanteys" during it such as "Louie, Louie" to establish a smooth paddling rhythm. Lately, he's even gotten Odo interested on two such "trips." 
Around 2355, O'Brien kept a regimen of playing racquetball five hours daily, and missed it so much that he built a live court himself on DS9. He sparked a good-natured rivalry with Bashir, progressing through that sport into darts during Keiko's months-long absence on a Bajoran bio-survey. He's never had a run like his 47-game win streak at darts, ended only by a torn rotator cuff in his shoulder, his most serious injury there yet. 
Beyond sports and games, O'Brien enjoys detective fiction such as Mickey Spillane and at DS9 loaned copies to Odo; he's also an old hand at poker. The chief enjoys the holosuites as well for role-playing, going from RAF pilots in Bashir's own program for the Battle of Britain of Terra's World War II to his own replaying of the ancient Irish-Viking Battle of Clontarf as High King Brian Boru, a direct ancestor. 
When short-tempered he's been known to utter the quasi-curse "Cardies" and "bloody hell!" However, his lingering racism toward Cardassians was examined after Keiko rejected it when the war orphan Rugal stayed with them — although his trumped-up monkey trial and torture on Cardassia didn't help any. He dislikes getting medical physicals and hates surprise parties for himself. 
He had a fear of spiders, but largely conquered it during a crisis among Talarian hook spiders and their meter-long legs in a dark Jefferies Tube on the Zayra IV starbase — and after being married kept a pet tarantula, Christina, found on Titus IV. 
Professional Assessment: Report of Starfleet Engineering 
As Captain Maxwell realized in his early career, O'Brien has the special ability to quickly analyze a situation and present options for all contingencies — a talent expressed in command as well as engineering applications. His calm words with the former captain helped diffuse a powder keg, averting a Cardassian incident in 2368, and Picard tapped him to be tactical officer after Worf resigned from Starfleet and other key officers were farmed out to crews in a blockade fleet. He repeated that job often for Sisko on the U.S.S. Defiant. 
O'Brien has many accomplishments in his career field, led by his first-ever use of a genetic pattern in the Enterprise's modified biofilter to restore a transported object to a prior state. Though he easily catches on to many alien technologies, he had never worked a Cardassian transporter before his arrival at DS9. Their inflexible computer design, the many Starfleet technology patch-overs and the station's run-down, ransacked state kept him in fits early in the assignment. He coaxed the theoretical maximum of the U.S.S. Prometheus warp engines past WF 9.5 to 9.6. And in late 2371, he alone saved the Defiant against an auto-destruct countdown while Odo battled a Changeling saboteur. Like a typical engineer, he lengthens his repair time estimates and, to welcome Worf to DS9 as an in-joke, recalled that the only thing their Enterprise colleagues couldn't do right was keep the ship's Holodecks functioning without constant glitches. 
Psych Profile: UPDATE of SD 50000
Counselor Telnorri recording 
Shortly after the prior posting, this counselor saw the subject O'Brien for some 12 weeks of therapy to deal with 20 years of simulated imprisonment on Argratha compressed into a few hours — a wrongful conviction realized too late to prevent the so-called "correction." O'Brien hallucinated and often relived his artificial experiences, including the "murder" of his virtual-reality cellmate. He exhibited extreme guilt and flirted with suicide over the anger and feelings of helplessness that resulted from his denial and refusal to receive proper treatment. Thanks to breakthroughs at the time by Dr. Bashir and O'Brien's wife, the subject overcame his initial violent disapproval of therapy, and the treatment proceeded as well as could be expected. In follow-up reports by this counselor and Dr. Bashir, we have detected little if any residual fallout from the episode affecting his work or personal life. 
Psycho-Medical File Update:
CMO J. Bashir recording, SD 50500 
To update and correlate Counselor Telnorri's previous entry: 
The Chief continues to thrive on the challenges required by DS9's patched-together, cross-cultural platform — as well as the busy nature of our strategic area. In fact, he has recently confided to Worf that he was bored with the perfection of his last posting, the Galaxy-class Enterprise. Still, we continue with our own weekly dart games — though I have yet to try his favorite breakfast of two eggs over easy, three bacon strips, and corned beef hash ... or the single malt Irish whiskey, neat, which he enjoys off-duty when not in the synthehol mood. 
O'Brien has only recently concluded the biggest distraction of his recent career: his son's emergency fetal transplant by this doctor to Major Kira for surrogate pregnancy after his wife sustained threatening injury. While the ongoing health of the fetus was never in any real danger after the initial trauma, the unusual situation took a toll on both the O'Briens and Kira. After Miles' initial shock at the arrangement, I applauded he and Keiko for inviting Kira to move in with them and accept her as Molly's "Aunt Nerys," but the degree of intimacy they came to share was beyond my belief. Aside from the Chief's clear overprotectiveness regarding her diet, I would almost suspect that the two encountered at one point a mutual attraction that both fascinated and frightened them. By the time young Kirayoshi was born circa 50450, his tension had disrupted the traditional Bajoran birthing routine Kira had requested and spilled over to First Minister Shakaar, who had attended out of concern for Kira. 
The lone exception to this point was the stress caused by the hijacking of Keiko's body by a vengeful, cast-out wormhole alien (a "pah-wraith") bent on forcing him to help its plan of destroying the wormhole under penalty of harming Keiko's body and Molly. The chief came through on his own, once again finding himself on a two-front war, and protected himself, his loved ones and the station. 
Recently the chief has also confided to me how he prepares a "final message" tape to his wife and children prior to each departure on a dangerous mission, such as the covert infiltration to ascertain the rumored Changeling doubling of Gowron and the help in retrieving a prize Jem'Hadar vessel. On a sad note, I know the loss of one of his star engineers, Enrique Muniz, hurt him deeply. Even so, O'Brien remains a secular skeptic of the spiritualism of faiths such as those practiced by Worf and Kira. 
Encrypted for Security Clearance Level 9 or higher
Starfleet Intelligence Update:
Operative Chadwick recording, SD 51590 
The operation on Farius Prime to infiltrate the Orion Syndicate was surprisingly successful. Our original goal of discovering the Syndicate's inside contact at Starfleet was met. But our operative on the case, Miles O'Brien, also uncovered a conspiracy between the Syndicate and the Dominion to assassinate the Klingon Ambassador to Farius, an act they believed would endanger the Klingon-Federation Alliance. We warned the Klingon Embassy, and the plot was foiled. The only lives lost in the incident were those of Syndicate mobsters. 
Our man in the field, Mr. O'Brien, was strategically selected and recruited for his engineering skills — a necessary component for this mission that no other available operative could fulfill — and he cooperated in spite of his reluctance. His efficacy in infiltrating the organization was impressive. However, I cannot recommend Mr. O'Brien for any further covert operations of this nature, as he does not have the temperament for this kind of work. He failed to keep his perspective and too easily allowed himself to sympathize with his criminal subjects. Plus, he has a latent temper that can manifest in potentially compromising ways. Without the ability to maintain a professional distance in the thick of events, he cannot be a reliable operative. I make this report with some regret, as I had grown to like and admire Mr. O'Brien. I'm sorry we parted on inimical terms. 
Personnel Update:
Col. Kira Nerys, in command of Deep Space Nine, SD 52950.1 
I cannot believe Starfleet Academy is taking Miles O'Brien away from us. What am I going to do? How am I going to keep this station working without him? There is not a nut or bolt or plasma conduit in this entire place that does not bear his handprint. I cannot praise the Chief enough for the contributions he has made over the last seven years — not just as an engineer, but as a loyal friend and faithful part of our extended family. Despite the ordeals he's been through, he's always managed to strike a balance between seriousness and playfulness — never wavering in his commitments, even when under siege ... but as a hobbyist he's pretty die-hard, too. He is far and away one of the most inspiring individuals I have ever met. All of us remaining on DS9 will miss him deeply. 

Information provided by:
The Continuum, www.startrek.com, @2002 2006 CBS Studios, Paramount Pictures
The Encyclopedia, www.simonsays.com/st, @1997 Pocket Books, Michael & Denise Okuda, Debbie Mirek
Star Trek in Sound & Vision, www.stinsv.com, @2003 Dave & Richard
