PERSONNEL: Katherine Pulaski
Commander, Doctor, chief medical officer, U.S.S. Enterprise-D

ca. 2364 - Chief Medical Officer, U.S.S. Repulse, under Capt. Taggart 
2365 - Chief Medical Officer, U.S.S. Enterprise, under Capt. Jean-Luc Picard (one-year replacement for Dr. Beverly Crusher) 

Caustic and stubborn, the dedicated and highly skilled Doctor Pulaski was a long-time admirer of Jean-Luc Picard and put in for a transfer as soon as she learned of Crusher's departure. Her commander, Captain Taggart, formally reported his regret at losing her. 
During her year-long stint filling in for Dr. Beverly Crusher, who acted as head of Starfleet Medical in 2365, Pulaski initially showed high resistance to accepting Lt. Cmdr. Data as a sentient being, but came to regard him with more respect. She also distrusted the transporter and preferred using shuttles when possible. 
Pulaski has shown an inability to complete long-term intimate relationships, having been married and divorced three times over the 12 years following an intense affair with civilian attache Kyle Riker in 2353 near the Tholian border. She turned Riker down for marriage but remained on good terms with him as well as her ex-husbands. 
During her year aboard the U.S.S. Enterprise, Dr. Pulaski's professional passion almost proved deadly when she contracted a hyperaging disease at an experimental genetics station and would have died but for a transporter "miracle." A few months later, the Maraposans kidnapped her and Riker for cloning cells, but the two destroyed the immature clones. 
For relaxation, Pulaski demonstrated during her brief stay that she could hold her own in a game of poker and had interests in galactic literature, including Klingon. 
Professional Assessment: 2365 Report of Starfleet Medical (partial) 
One of Pulaski's earlier works, "Linear Models of Viral Propagation," is still used as a standard, and her name is known to many in the field. Among her medical accomplishments are two operations that successfully connected an artificial eye to a regenerated optic nerve, curing birth-blindness such as La Forge's. She outclassed the skills of the resident heart surgeon and biomolecular physiologist on Starbase 515, where she was called in to save Picard's defective artificial heart during her U.S.S. Enterprise service.

Reference: The Child, et al 2nd season TNG, Unnatural Selection, The Icarus Factor, Shades of Gray
Played by Diane Muldaur who also played Dr. Ann Mulhall in "Return to Tomorrow," and Dr. Miranda Jones in "Is There In Truth No Beauty?" She was made part of the regular crew during the second season, then replaced by Gates again.
Information provided by:
The Continuum, www.startrek.com, @2002 Paramount Pictures
The Encyclopedia, www.simonsays.com/st, @1997 Pocket Books, Michael & Denise Okuda, Debbie Mirek

