PERSONNEL: Sarek
Ambassador, diplomatic officer, Earth

A legendary Vulcan ambassador for the Federation born in Terran year 2164 to Skon and grandfather Solkar, Sarek was married at least three times over an illustrious career that was being studied in school well before his death at age 202. Sarek's accomplishments were many, including the Coridan admission debate in 2267 before the UFP Council, early Klingon treaties, and his incredible 93-year effort to bring about a Federation-Legaran treaty - but in contrast his personal life was stormy, even for a Vulcan. Sarek rarely saw his first son, Sybok, who was born in 2224 by a Vulcan princess, his first wife who died shortly after the delivery. Sarek wed Amanda Grayson, a human, in 2229 and the next year gave birth to Spock, but the father later broke off relations with this son when Spock chose a Starfleet career over the Vulcan Science Academy. The two had already been distant: Spock would go off for days into the mountains near their home, never revealing of his travels and stoically enduring his punishment. They did not speak again until the Coridan debate, when Sarek survived a series of heart attacks and surgery only after a transfusion of blood from donor Spock. Father and son remained on good terms as the Klingon detente bloomed and Spock, although Sarek had endured Spock's apparent death on Genesis in 2286 and later pushed for the ancient fal-to-pan refusion of his katra and retrieved body. The two later split for good over the Cardassian issue of the 24th century, by which time Amanda died and Sarek married another human, Perrin. He was diagnosed with Bendii syndrome by 2366 and struggled to complete the Legaran affair, finally doing so only with Picard's help after a mind-meld that finally ended his bitter denial of the debilitation. The meld later allowed Picard in turn to link with Spock in 2368, just after Sarek died at home with Perrin, and pass along the true feelings of love and admiration for his son that he was never allowed to convey in life. 

Reference: Journey to Babel, The Search For Spock, The Voyage Home, The Undiscovered Country, Sarek, Unification
Played by Mark Lenard, who also played the Romulan commander in "Balance of Terror," and the Klingon commander of the I.K.S. Amar in "The Motion Picture." A young version of Sarek was played by Jonathan Simpson in "The Final Frontier."
Information provided by:
The Continuum, www.startrek.com, @2002 2006 CBS Studios, Paramount Pictures
The Encyclopedia, www.simonsays.com/st, @1997 Pocket Books, Michael & Denise Okuda, Debbie Mirek
