PERSONNEL: Seko
Ensign, security officer, U.S.S. Sutherland, instructor of Targeting, Starfleet Academy

A beautiful member of the Collie region of Fetlik. Born during the Spring season to Cyro and Hybil as part of a small litter of three children, first out before Sokol and Sebarro. She lived in Collie all her life with her older siblings from a litter of five born two years before; Lee, Lyon, Laman, Linka, and Lefel.
Her father worked for the Fetlik government as an administrative aid to the president's office. Not politically affiliated, he was protected from changes in government. Her mother did act in politics, and was an active part in the Federal party, one which strongly encouraged continuing work with the Federation and its off world ties, against the Solis party which supported isolationism and local issues like protection from predators.
The Collie region of the planet contains the planet's capital and is the most desirable to live in due to the temperate climate. Fetlik does not tilt on an axis, and does not experience seasonal changes as Earth does, but the plants have limited life spans and dictate the seasons based on their stage of development. The Collie region is always lush and green, bounding with generous amounts of live plants and trees. Seko's homestead was no exception.
Her family lived off the ground and tucked into a collection of trees like most Fetlik citizens, being careful of nocturnal predators that hunt humanoids. Seko often wandered out of her home at night though, despite the dangers. She took a phaser from her father's weapon's cabinet in search of predators. She became a fine tracer and surrendered many Buli cats, a large and deadly feline, to the authorities. She was regularly punished for her actions by her father for risking her young life.
Seko attended school when she was ten, like other members of her race.
Home schooling is important during the younger years on Fetlik. She graduated and spent two years working for the Fetlik Patrol, providing security for the citizens of Collie.
When she became 25, she took her first chance to leave Fetlik for the Starfleet Academy. She was accepted to the Academy years early, at age 21, but was granted delayed admission in respect for Fetlik custom that prevents citizens from leaving the homeworld before 25 years of age. She entered the security division to continue the work she began on Fetlik. She was granted early graduation, like the majority of her class to support the war effort against the Dominion and was posted to the U.S.S. Sutherland as a security officer. While aboard ship, she and her colleagues were trained in infantry tactics in the event that they would to respond to a planetary relief effort, or have to reclaim a boarded ship.
While the Sutherland was engaging the Dominion as a part of front line duty the ship was truck and damaged. The sensor module was ripped from the hull causing severe power outages and killing many crew members, including
Captain Ramsey. During the long return trip to Earth they were intercepted numerous times by Jem'Hadar patrols. Seko proved herself to be good with weapons as she skillfully targeted the attack ships with phasers and torpedoes. She was given a field promotion from security to tactical, making her a bridge officer by acting captain Chris Hobson. When the starship returned to dry-dock in Earth orbit, Seko spent a long periods of time with the ship during its retrofit of the weapons system. She then took advantage of the starship's reassignment to Academy training to take more classes herself, focusing on tactical analysis. She was asked to teach a class at the Academy upon her return as well, which she accepted the Targeting course.
Her psyche test reveals a strong amount of self-confidence, about her intelligence and her physical appearance. Most Fetlik citizens lack physical modesty, especially since they are covered in hair. But she also is very confident of her targeting skills. She does lack in physical strength compared to other to other security officers though, and tends not to use those skills of hers. This could make her vulnerable in events where phasers and other energy weapons are not available. 

TIMELINE:
2346:	Born, Spring season, in Collie on Fetlik III
2364: Accepted to Starfleet academy with deferred enrollment
2369:	Worked for the Fetlik Patrol
2371:	Entered Starfleet Academy
2373:	Assigned to the U.S.S. Sutherland to support the Dominion War effort, graduated Starfleet Academy early and commissioned as ensign.
2373:	Accepted to the Academy graduate program and began teaching at Starfleet Academy

FAMILY:
Father:		Cyro			Administrative Aide
Mother:		Hybil			Federal Party 
Older litter:	Lee		2344
Older litter:	Lyon		2344
Older litter:	Laman		2344
Older litter:	Linka		2344
Older litter:	Lefel		2344
Litter-mate:	Sokol		2346
Litter-mate:	Sebarro	2346
Paternal:
Father:
Mother:
Litter-mate:
Litter-mate:
Maternal:
Father:
Mother:
Uncle:		Kender
Uncle:		Kenyan
Uncle:		Kendol
Aunt:			Kentay
Uncle:		Hysher

Reference: Starfleet Academy series
This character was inspired in an attempt to select a seen but not discussed race from Star Trek history. This species has served on board the U.S.S. Saratoga and is expected to be the same race as the feline dancer seen on Nimbus III.
Information provided by:
Starfleet Academy, www.geocities.com/starfleet_academy_2373, @2000 Kenn Ferguson
