PERSONNEL: Shakaar Edon
First Minister, planetary leader, Bajor

A onetime farmer in Bajor's Dahkur Province, Shakaar returned to his fields in 2369 after 25 years of fighting the Cardassian occupiers -- only to find himself in politics as his world's secular leader in 2371. As the head and namesake of Kira's resistance cell, he agreed to let her go on her first raid at age 13 to fill in a vacancy in the ranks, and ironically found himself reteamed with her years later during a near-violent showdown with Kai Winn over the return of promised soil reclamators. After that encounter and the support he received for his handling of it, he handily won the position as Bajor's second post-occupation First Minister, edging Winn out of her acting role. Even after knowing Kira for 10 years, he realizes he has fallen in love with her a year after his election, during his successful push to cut Bajor's UFP admission timetable in half -- though that act was later postponed by Emissary Sisko's pagh-tem-far that advised against it. As he and Kira's affair played out, he had a hard time accepting her carrying the O'Brien's transplanted second child to term after an accident, and made a fool of himself during her delivery in mid-2373. Soon afterward, he and Kira parted ways romantically, although she still respects him as Bajor's best leader. Shakaar is used to death threats and he routinely ignores them, but a True Way alien operative nearly killed him twice during the Federation conference on DS9 by sending his turbolift car into free fall, then almost getting his quarters depressurized. According to Dukat, anyway, he slept with every woman in the cell except Kira -- but Dukat's jealousy of the major should be taken into account. 
Shakaar's relationship with Kira ended in 2373 after a visit to the Kenda shrine on Bajor revealed that they were not meant to walk the same path. 

Reference: Shakaar, Crossfire, Return to Grace, The Begotten, Accession
Played by Duncan Regehr, who also played Ronin in "Sub Rosa."
Information provided by:
The Continuum, www.startrek.com, @2002 2006 CBS Studios, Paramount Pictures
The Encyclopedia, www.simonsays.com/st, @1997 Pocket Books, Michael & Denise Okuda, Debbie Mirek

