PERSONNEL: Hikaru Sulu
Captain, starship commander, U.S.S. Excelsior

Of Asian descent, Sulu served as helm officer on board the original U.S.S. Enterprise during one of its five-year missions, after an initial stint as an astrosciences physicist. He then was promoted to chief helmsman on board the U.S.S. Enterprise, under James T. Kirk. 
In 2290, Sulu assumed command of the starship Excelsior and began a three-year mission charting gaseous anomalies in the Beta Quadrant. Because of this proximity to the Klingon Empire he was instrumental in saving the U.S.S. Enterprise from destruction by dissidents who were out to destroy the Khitomer peace conference. 
After a full career he was still on active patrol on the Cardassian border as a captain at age 113 in 2350, where he agreed to sponsor young Chakotay from Dorvan V for Starfleet Academy after befriending the youth. 
Sulu was an active hobbyist with interests including fencing, botany, and the martial arts of his native culture; in fact, when the helmsman was infected with the Psi 3000 virus in 2366 he threatened the bridge with his foil. Another of Sulu's hobbies was old-style hand guns, although he had never managed to find a "Police Special" for his collection. He is also an accomplished pilot of craft from many eras and cultures, piloting with little warm-up both an antique 20th century Earth helicopter and a Klingon Bird-of-Prey. 
He has a daughter, Demora, who attended Starfleet Academy and served as the first helm officer of the Excelsior-class U.S.S. Enterprise under Capt. John Harriman, when Kirk met his untimely death due to the Nexus Ribbon in 2293. 

TIMELINE:
2237: Born, San Francisco, Earth
2255: Entered Starfleet Academy
2259: Promoted to Ensign, graduated Starfleet Academy
2265: As lieutenant, assigned as staff physicist under Capt. James T. Kirk, U.S.S. Enterprise 
2266: Transferred to helm officer, U.S.S. Enterprise 
2270: Promoted the lieutenant commander, assigned to refit U.S.S. Enterprise under Capt. Will Decker 
2270: Daughter, Demora Sulu, born
2277: Assigned to Starfleet Academy cadet training and Starfleet Command helm operations 
2285: By now a commander, aboard U.S.S. Enterprise during rescue of Project Genesis team 
2286: Inquiry dismisses charges related to theft of U.S.S. Enterprise 
2287: Oversees helm on new U.S.S. Enterprise NCC-1701-A 
2290: Promoted to captain, given command of post-prototype U.S.S. Excelsior 
2293: First to detect explosion of Klingon moon Praxis, assists at Khitomer peace conference 
2350: As captain, still active on patrol of Cardassian border 

Reference: The Enemy Within, Charlie X, The Motion Picture, The Wrath of Khan, The Search For Spock, The Voyager Home, The Final Frontier, The Undiscovered Country, Flashback
Played by George Takei. He did not perform in the animated series, rather the voice was done by James Doohan.
Information provided by:
The Continuum, www.startrek.com, @2002 2006 CBS Studios, Paramount Pictures
The Encyclopedia, www.simonsays.com/st, @1997 Pocket Books, Michael & Denise Okuda, Debbie Mirek
Star Trek in Sound and Vision, www.stinsv.com, @2002 Dave & Richard
