PERSONNEL: Tahdy
Cadet 2nd class, Starfleet Academy, science division

A typical Vulcan cadet studying general sciences at the Starfleet Academy. This only child was born 2353 to Trib and Fory in the canyon city of Vaust, Vulcan. This young achiever applied to the school at the very young age of 12 (Terran years) and was granted delayed admission until he reached the age of 18 to allow him to complete his basic studies on Vulcan.
Tahdy was determined to leave the planet as soon as possible since his parents were slightly xenophobic and kept him on a very short leash, as the Terran phrase goes. Despite the fact that his family lived in a highly populated spaceport, and both of them worked for interstellar businesses, they did not want their child interacting with aliens until after he had undergone the kolinar and was sure not be influenced by the whimsical desires and emotions of aliens.
The family lived in a townhouse built into the side of the canyon, on the third level (of ten) from the ground floor. The Vaust Canyon is Vulcan's largest spaceport and most heavily populated area, featuring one of the only places on Vulcan with mild desert conditions. The walls of the valley protect the houses within the walls and the ground floor from the immense heat and direct light of the Vulcan sun, so this area became populated as far back as Vulcan history records. And despite the fact that Vulcan has no monetary system, nor classed-style society, sociologists would consider this the "low rent district" of the planet. Crime is highest in this area due to the large alien population and transient content. In an attempt to protect their child from these dangers, Trib and Fory forbid their child to leave the house unattended, or without specific, planned & approved destinations. He was not allowed to go out exploring or wandering; such attempts were considered unnecessary and the actions of a "feeling" person.
Both of his parents endured the kolinar process and endorse it to everyone they know. And while having discussions at home often criticize those citizens that have not completed the rigorous training involved in the purging of emotions. And even though one of the basic concepts of the kolinar process is self-recognition of a need for the training, Tahdy observed the contradiction in their logic by repeatedly insisting amongst themselves that others needed to partake in it.
Tahdy's rare trips to the merchant area were usually when he escorted his mother to her work area. As an accountant for the Vaust Hilton she often brought her work home with her and conducted business via the computer out of the house. Monthly she had to attend meetings at the hotel itself and for some of those she would allow her son to visit the hotel as well. While there he would be allowed to take advantage of the pool and other facilities that the hotel had to offer, but his mother often checked with the reservation desk to make sure that alien children were not staying at the hotel at the same time in case they may also desire to use the same facilities.
Tahdy's father worked as a buyer for a produce market in the center of the warehouse district of the city. This area was the most congested and unorganized part of the city. Many Vulcans considered it a strain on their mental state to put up with the chaos that exists in the open markets. The buildings in this area were used as warehouses and storage while the store front is equipped with tables and display stands to hold the merchandise. Vendors and delivery transports fill the centers of the street making navigation for consumers and visitors very difficult. Trib tried to stay in his office of the building he worked in as often as possible, but admitted that he was probably the most qualified Vulcan within his company since he was the only person to have gone through the kolinar. Tahdy had tried to point out the apparent vanity in his statements but was met with heated arguments and reminded that his comments were more proof of why he needed to undergo the kolinar as well.
Tahdy was allowed a few trips up to the landing pads where the spacegoing vessels landed. Escorted trips included times when he was awaiting to meet his maternal uncle, the captain of a large transport, converted from a heavy cruiser of many years ago. He would meet his Uncle when he landed aboard the Umat, a runabout assigned to his ship. And he did travel off world one summer with his uncle on his regular transport route which took him to Andor, Earth, Bilana, and three starbases.
Accepting of Vulcan tradition, Tahdy was betrothed at age 7 when he was experiencing his first pon-farr, to Senor. But he didn't have any follow-up contact with her after that. She was chosen since her parents studied the kolinar at the same time as Tahdy's parents and equally agreed in the importance of the education. And at age 19, Tahdy left the Vulcan homeworld to travel to Earth to study at the Presidio.
At the end of his freshman year, during the Breen attacks, this cadet was assigned to patrol the city streets of San Francisco in case occupation forces tried landing on the planet in an attempt to overtake the central seat of the Federation. Starfleet was able to repel the Breen ships and not forces made it to the ground.
Tahdy's psyche test reveals that he well adjusted to alien cultures, despite his obviously denied childhood to that event. He often works in groups with aliens, including the most emotional of all, Terrans. While no attempts to avoid Vulcan participants is noted, it is suspected that it may be a factor. Tahdy does not participate in many Vulcan customs on the Academy, stating that involvement in Vulcan rituals and holidays is evidence of indulgence in emotion. It is felt that this is based on his perceived opinion of his parent's contradictions in logic. While they do accept traditional events, they also condemn most other events as superfluous. Tahdy is thought to be having difficulty with this so he in turn denies all such events.

TIMELINE:
2353: Born in Vaust, Vulcan.
2360: Betrothed to Senor.
2363: Spent the summer on his Uncle's transport route.
2365: Accepted to the Starfleet Academy under delayed admission.
2369: Began courses at the Vulcan Science Academy.
2372: Entered the Starfleet Academy.

FAMILY:
Father:		Trib	2325
Mother:		Fory	2325
Betrothed:	Senor	2353
Paternal:
Father:		Mosal
Mother:		Tumek
Maternal:
Father:		Styr
Mother:		Y'Ani
Uncle:		Relko	2332	transport captain

Reference: Starfleet Academy series
Information provided by:
Starfleet Academy, www.geocities.com/kenn_ferguson, @2000 Kenn Ferguson

