PERSONNEL: Tocheck, son of G'Relk, House of G'Relk, House of Duras
Doctor, House of Duras, Qo'noS

The primary medical physician for the entire House of Duras. This man was older than Duras, but answered to the g'ArtOl of that House. When Duras told his father that he felt the family needed its own physician, Ja'rod, g'ArtOl at the time, ordered Tocheck to go through training in that field so that he may be able to provide for the House. Once he completed his training he traveled with the heads of the household on all missions across Qo'noS and across the empire. He had even traveled to Khitomer shortly before the Romulan massacre. He was ordered to return with the Duras family to Qo'noS and that is how he was spared from death in that instance.
He married Na'Kel, a lieutenant in the House guard. They had two children together, N'Nel and Dargo. N'Nel went on to become an architect and worked to design and build starships for the Klingon Empire; always offering ships to the Duras family first. Dargo was sent for training in the Klingon Defense Force, then returned to the Duras compound as an officer on board the Br'Muk; then moved on to be trained by the Starfleet Academy.
In his early days of medical service he performed all procedures by himself. As his duties began to involve more and more officers from the fleet of spacecraft loyal to the House of Duras, he required a medical staff. Duras granted him a staff of three; a nurse and two patient care technicians. He was one of the most successful doctors on Qo'noS, partly because of his new medical staff. And as Duras acquired more and more power, Tocheck was allowed to acquire more and more medical equipment, even some from the Federation, which helped him to become more successful in his healing ventures.
After the death of Duras, to Worf, Tocheck returned to Qo'noS where he remained at the House compound. He conferred with his father about ceeding from the House of Duras, and restoring the name of the House of G'Relk since the House was without its formal lead; but G'Relk, being the advocate that he was, deferred to Klingon customs and forced Tocheck to accept Toral as g'ArtOl and the orders of Duras' sisters; B'Etor and Lursa. After their deaths, and the shame of Toral, the House of Duras remained, supported by hundreds of members from various other families; all unsure where the House would end up. Tocheck tried to appeal to the High Council for a decision on the House, but was shot down from his lack of position in Klingon culture.

Reference: Dargo's Commission
Information provided by:
Starfleet Academy, www.geocities.com/starfleet_academy_2373, @2000 Kenn Ferguson

