PERSONNEL: Tomalak
Commander, starship commander, R.S.E. Terix

As one of the most visible Romulan leaders along the Neutral Zone of the 2360s, Tomalak enjoyed playing the role of sneeringly diplomatic soldier of his elusive people. Tomalak matched wits with Starfleet's Jean-Luc Picard at three times over the years and was outmaneuvered on each occasion. 
In 2366, he had to back down after a spy craft that violated the NZ, the Pi, was discovered with survivors on Galorndon Core. He stated that the scout had navigational errors. Her was completely surprised when plans to expose his own service's Admiral Jarok as a traitor with a faked Nelvana III invasion story were calmed when three Klingon ships decloaked to back up the Enterprise, outnumbering the two warbirds he had planned to use to capture the Starfleet flagship with. In his last known appearance, he confronted Picard in 2370 during incidents surrounding a Q-created alternate future timeline. In the alternat future he took lead of 30 ships dispatched to the Neutral Zone in response to the temporal anomaly which formed in the Devron System.
During an away mission in which Commander William Riker was captured the image of Tomalak was used to further confuse Riker and prevent him from fully understanding his surroundings. He was trapped in a holographic recreation for the amusement of Barash, but when Riker saw flaws in the story Tomalak's images were used to "blame" the errors on bad Romulan intelligence- further complicating the issues. In the false reality Tomalak was an Ambassador working closely with Admiral Picard for peace talks- until Riker saw more flaws in that scenario too. 

Reference: The Enemy, The Defector, Future Imperfect, All Good Things 
Portrayed by Andreas Katsulas, most notably known for his role as G'Kar in Babylon 5 and Newcomer Overseer Coolock on Alien Nation.
Information provided by:
The Continuum, www.startrek.com, @2002 2006 CBS Studios, Paramount Pictures
The Encyclopedia, www.simonsays.com/st, @1997 Pocket Books, Michael & Denise Okuda, Debbie Mirek
