PERSONNEL: B'Elanna Torres
Maquis, Lieutenant, chief engineering officer, U.S.S. Voyager

After a brilliant but troubled two years heading toward an engineering specialty at Starfleet Academy, subject Torres seemed to be constantly at odds with the Klingon heritage of her maternal side and after several disruptive episodes agreed to leave school. Having grown up on Kessik IV, where she and her mother were the only Klingon residents, her human father left when she was a child, and she has always blamed her Klingon heritage for driving him away. 

She later joined the Maquis rebellion in its early stages and by mid-2370 was acting as engineer for former Starfleet officer Chakotay's crew, her position at last report and the crew to which Lt. Tuvok of the U.S.S. Voyager under Captain Kathryn Janeway had infiltrated undercover. Her ship was last heard from a week before the Voyager went looking for it in the DMZ Badlands; both vessels are missing and presumed lost, last detected SD 48307.5. 

When she turns to recreation as an outlet, she has been known to play both hoverball and Parrises Squares. 

File Update: Delta Quadrant Addendum
Report by Capt. Kathryn Janeway, U.S.S. Voyager 

I have never regretted my decision to assign Torres the brevet rank of lieutenant or make her my chief engineer. She is tough, knowledgeable and independent, and sometimes seems an echo of myself at her age in her department, but her mixed heritage has manifested itself in a state of confusion and denial that I hope is not personally insurmountable. Now that B'Elanna is unable to release her frustrations through fighting the Cardassians, she must learn to accept herself and her conflicting heritage. 

I recall how far she has come since her diatribe against my order to destroy the Caretaker's Array when we first arrived, and her reaction to Tuvok's grumbling "boot camp" Maquis bears out my faith in her. 

Episodes such as the Vidiians' kidnapping of her to test Klingon tissue for its Phage-resistance does not hurt, although I was gratified to see she allowed such a sample taken a year later to aid Dr. Danara Pel, who later in turn helped our crew when Chakotay and I were fatally infected and left behind. It hurt me to put her on report following the Sikaris insubordination. 

Torres was also driven by guilt to stop "Dreadnought," the code name of a Cardassian doomsday missile she reprogrammed as a Maquis in mid-2370 to hit its makers' fuel depot at Aschelon V and swept up by the Array to into the Delta Quadrant. She launched it as a super-killer without Chakotay's permission — even though she programmed it to warn Federation ships. B'Elanna was also away from us when a Cravic fighter robot she reactivated here kidnapped her to its vessel to give its kind the secret of replication that had all but halted their undying war with Praylor robots, since neither could reproduce after both sides eliminated their makers and kept fighting. 

CROSS-EXCERPT, related file, Chakotay personal log, SD 50246: 

Sometimes I wonder about my B'Elanna. I know she's honest, but the erotic Enaran dreams she experienced are, I trust, not a product of her own psyche. It' s none of my business of course, but even though she dates, I do worry about her keeping to herself too much. I just hope the flirtatious sparring she gets from Tom Paris these days doesn't lead to more hurt for her. 

Personnel file addendum, report of CO Janeway, SD 50450: 

I have nothing but praise for my chief engineer as we near our third year in returning home, despite her unusual behavior with the Enarans, whom I had hoped to make as a new ally. But B'Elanna is nothing if not brutally honest, and though my own inquiry failed to turn up concrete proof of her story I cannot help but feel we are better off without allies whom she claim engaged in a Holocaust-like purge and then ignored the horror. 

Personnel file addendum, report of CO Janeway, SD 54452.6: 

I have been very pleased to see that B'Elanna's marriage to Tom has made her a happier person and has consequently evened out her normally explosive temperment. But that Klingon disposition came to the fore once again when B'Elanna learned that she was pregnant. Mood swings are to be expected, but she took matters a little too far when she reprogrammed the Doctor to make him agree to a procedure that would alter the baby's genetic sequence. Ironically, she wanted to eliminate all of her baby's Klingon traits, to ensure that her daughter wouldn't endure the pain of being different and repeat her own experience as a child. Fortunately, though, Lt. Paris continues to prove exemplary as a supportive husband, and he was able to allay her concerns and smooth out her emotions once again. Lt. Torres has corrected her actions and apologized to the Doctor, so I won't be taking any disciplinary measures at this time. Besides, we don't want to suppress that maternal glow. 

Reference: Caretaker, et al VOY
Portrayed by Roxanne Biggs Dawson. She changed her name a bit, to use her maiden name and her married names.
Information provided by:
The Continuum, www.startrek.com, @2006 CBS Studios
The Encyclopedia, www.simonsays.com/st, @1997 Pocket Books, Michael & Denise Okuda, Debbie Mirek

