PERSONNEL: Charles "Trip"Tucker III
Commander, chief engineer, Enterprise NX-01

An old buddy of Captain Archer's and renowned as a gifted orbital engineer, "Trip" is a charming Southerner with an offbeat sense of humor who is always on the hunt for the next big adventure. Whether it's deep-sea diving, constructing starships in orbit, or interspecies dating, Trip is good to go. Trip is the third senior officer on Enterprise, but he's a "fish out of water" when dealing with new civilizations. 
Trip has been in Starfleet for 12 years, and has known Archer for eight. The duo shares a strong bond, and once endured harsh survival training in the Australian outback together. The captain describes his chief engineer as "tough as nails," and has saved Trip's life several times. During an Omega training mission on Titan, Trip's EV pack froze up and he got nitrogen narcosis and tried to remove his helmet - Archer ordered him to keep it on. Likewise, when the two were stranded on a brutal desert planet, Archer saved a delirious Trip from succumbing entirely to heatstroke. For his part, Trip is always there when the captain needs cheering up. When Archer was depressed about Enterprise's botched first contact with the Kreetassans, his chief engineer lightened the mood with a data module of the Stanford vs. Texas water polo match. 
Prior to his time on Enterprise, Trip had only been to one inhabited planet beyond Earth - and it was "inhabited" by dust-dwelling ticks. Thus, he craves adventure, and tends to get "antsy" when things are too dull. Luckily, Enterprise's first year was packed with new experiences. Trip went down in history as the first human male to become pregnant and the first example of interspecies pregnancy involving a human after his encounter with the Xyrillian female Ah'len. During his brief experience being "with child," Trip experienced all the usual hormonal irregularities, resulting in mood swings and fluctuations in appetite. Luckily, Enterprise managed to locate the Xyrillians and transfer the embryo. 
As he has proved time and time again, Trip is an ace engineer, and claims that he can't sleep without the warp engines online. Attacks from an unknown race prompted Trip and Lieutenant Reed to lead the crew in building a complement of phase cannons from scratch while in mid-space, effectively upgrading Enterprise's weapons. They accomplished in two days what would have taken the armory team at Jupiter Station at least a week. He was also part of the away team captured by the Andorians at the sacred Vulcan monastery of P'Jem, and later teamed up with those same Andorians to rescue Archer and T'Pol from Coridan rebels. He was key in saving the ship from some strange, large-lobed alien thieves, and has been left in command of Enterprise on several occasions during the course of the first year. 
Though he appears to be the charmer when it comes to the ladies, Trip claims that he has been involved in only three relationships, all of which ended badly. A long distance romance with Natalie from Pensacola didn't work out, and he regrets that he was unable to say good-bye in person. As a Starfleet trainee, he was infatuated with a waitress named Ruby at Mill Valley's 602 Club - the same Ruby that Lieutenant Reed once had a relationship with. Trip's first dance was at Bayshore Elementary in Panama City, Florida, and he still expresses regret that he was unable to approach the girl he had a crush on, Melissa Lyles. Despite practicing the two-step for weeks with his brother, Trip ended up spending the whole dance in the corner with his friends. Recently, Trip experienced a flirtation with Kantare beauty Liana - he gave her a tour of the ship and a protein resequencer programmed for five flavors of ice cream. 
When he first joined Starfleet, Trip lived a few blocks from the Vulcan compound, and in 10th grade he had a Vulcan biology teacher, Mr. Velik. None of this has tempered his distrust of the Vulcans, who he sees as cold and rigid in their ways. Sub-Commander T'Pol is challenging his preconceived notions a bit. Though she and Trip have clashed many times regarding protocol - prompting T'Pol to remind Trip that she outranks him - the two share a grudging respect and an unusual bond. When Trip inadvertently learned that T'Pol's pre-arranged marriage might force her to leave Enterprise, he managed to convince her to follow her gut and stay onboard. Trip also found a Vulcan friend in Kov, an engineer and member of the unconventional "V'tosh ka'tur." The chief engineer's friendship and guidance eventually convinced Kov to contact his long estranged father. 
Trip has also forged an unlikely bond with Reed, whose buttoned-up nature seems diametrically opposed to the chief engineer's friendly manner. When the duo was stranded in a damaged shuttlepod for several days, they initially clashed, as Trip is given to what Reed calls "treacly optimism." In the end, they discovered they have more in common than they thought, and at one point, Trip even tried to sacrifice himself so that Reed would have a better chance of survival. Luckily, they were both rescued by Enterprise, and lived to spend some memorable shore leave time together on pleasure planet Risa. The two men went in search of fun at a Risan nightclub - and ended up getting mugged. They managed to escape, but did their best to avoid detailing the incident to their fellow crewmembers. 
Trip's nephew is in Ms. Malvin's fourth grade class at the Worley Elementary School in Kenmare, County Kerry, Ireland, and the students sent Enterprise some drawings and questions regarding life on a starship. Trip was asked to field a query about flushing the ship toilets - and expressed dismay at being asked a "poop question." 
Trip has interests outside of engineering, and enjoys taking pictures of the many new sights encountered by Enterprise. He also took photos of Captain Archer, so that an Oakland artist would be able to paint the captain's portrait, to be displayed at Starfleet Command. He is quite athletic, and very much enjoyed the game of Geskana, which was introduced to him by charismatic alien leader Zobral. Despite his jovial nature, Trip has been known to tear up during the occasional movie. His favorite food is pan-friend catfish, particularly his mother's recipe, and his favorite flavor of ice cream is Rocky Road. 
Trip may be new to space exploration, but his thirst for adventure and willingness to take on just about anything make him an ideal member of the Enterprise crew. His top-notch engineering skills and dedication guarantee Archer that the ship's warp engines are in the best possible hands, and his loyal nature assures the captain a true and lifelong friend. 

Reference: Broken Bow, et al ENT
Portrayed by Connor Trinneer.
Information provided by:
The Continuum, www.startrek.com, @2002 2006 CBS Studios, Paramount Pictures
