PERSONNEL: Natasha (Tasha) Yar
Lieutenant, Chief of Security, U.S.S. Enterprise-D

Year of birth: 2337
Place of birth: Turkana IV
Date of death: 2364 (Stardate 41601)
Place of death: Vagra II
Cause of death: Head trauma from alien assault
Marital status: Single

The original security chief under Captain Jean-Luc Picard on the U.S.S. Enterprise led a tragic yet heroic life until her death in the line of duty in 2364. 
Yar was born on the failing colony world of Turkana IV in 2337, but both her parents were killed in the crossfire among the planet's cadre infighting just after her younger sister Ishara was born some 4 1/2 years later. After their foster care family abandoned them within months, the girls led a violent and harrowing life on the streets, eluding rape gangs and drug addiction while fending for themselves. One comforting companion amid the chaos at the time was a kitten. 
Yar finally got off the world in 2352, at age 15 - just about the time the colony broke all contact with the UFP. She invited Ishara to join her, but the younger sister refused, preferring the protection of her Coalition cadre there. The two never saw each other again, although Ishara learned of her sister's legacy from Enterprise officers in 2367. 
Picard had asked for Yar aboard the Enterprise after he first saw her as she risked her life in a Carnelian mine field to save a colonist, and her current captain owed him a favor. 
Despite a valiant effort by Dr. Crusher, on SD 41601 during a rescue mission on Vagra II she died as a result of injuries from an invisible energy bolt to her head by the malevolent creature Armus; it left a blotch on her jaw. A memorial service that featured a holographic recording of her last thoughts and thank-yous to her closest shipmates was held later. 
Well-trained in martial arts and athletics, her favorite pastimes were aikido and Parrises squares, and she participated in ship-board competitions. Having grown up hardened to sentimentality, she found it a struggle to express her femininity - although the Tsiolkovsky virus allowed her to share an intimacy with Data once, an intimacy he treasured with a small hologram from her memorial tape, though he was forced to disclose the encounter during his trial for sentient rights a year later. 
Historical File Addendum: Report of Capt. Jean-Luc Picard 
As explained to me by Guinan, a highly-perceptive El-Aurian and my close friend, a duplicate Tasha Yar in a parallel time-line re-entered this universe in 2344 via a time vortex, aboard the Ambassador-class U.S.S. Enterprise, NCC-1701- C. Unknown to outsiders, Yar was taken as a consort by a Romulan general aboard the ships that attacked and defeated that Enterprise without leaving a trace of it, and she gave birth a year later to his daughter, Sela. In 2349, when Sela was 4, she foiled her own mother's escape attempt and Tasha was killed again. 

Reference: Encounter at Farpoint, The Naked Now, Code of Honor, Where No One Has Gone Before, Skin of Evil, The Measure of a Man, Legacy, Yesterday's Enterprise, Redemption, All Good Things...
Information provided by:
Played by Denise Crosby, whom also played Sela. She originally auditioned for the role of Deanna Troi, played by Mirina Sirtis; and vise versa. Her final episode, "Skin of Evil" was filmed before the preceeding episode, during which she took the opportunity to wave goodbye to the TV audience in a subtle way expecting that she would not be back for future episodes. Fortunately her character was liked well enough by the audience that they did find unique ways to have her reprise her role. 
The Continuum, www.startrek.com, @2002 2006 CBS Studios, Paramount Pictures
The Encyclopedia, www.simonsays.com/st, @1997 Pocket Books, Michael & Denise Okuda, Debbie Mirek
Star Trek in Sound and Vision, www.stinsv.com, @2002 Dave & Richard
