TECHNOLOGY: Computer core-Cardassian

Information acquired about Cardassian computers is derived from studies of the units aboard Deep Space 9. While other computer cores have been collected from commandeered starships, most were damaged during the acquisition process to the point that most data is not considered reputable enough to discuss. Other data that is confirmed, and other theorizes based on starship systems remains classified.
Cardassian networks consists of three main processing cores. On Nor-class station it can be located between levels 14 and 21, deep within the Mid-Core assembly of each station so that the computer cores are protected from most external EM by multiple shielding layers and from transmitted physical shock through the use of electrohydraulic attenuation beds at the dorsal and ventral ends. 
The cores measure 15.54 meters in diameter and 45.11 meters in height and are bilaterally symmetrical in geometry and architecture across the X-Z plane. In effect, each core is two complete half-cores running in clock-sync.
The use of three main cores is consistent with the Cardassian predilection for creating structures in triplets, which affords them wide flexibility in assigning maintenance and analysis tasks. As with many Starfleet interstellar ships and starbases, a single core can perform all basic required tasks, and two cores are able to handle at least 85 percent of the computational load should one core fail. The processor architecture is so designed, however, to keep a core operating at a minimum diagnostic level and will attempt to isolate all nonfunctioning processors for failure analysis and redistribute tasks to the remaining processors.
No superluminal or FTL processing occurs in the core sections. The Cardassians have elected to remain with ruggedized isolinear and rod storage technology operating at subwarp speeds. No significant disadvantages have surfaced in this regard, and all computational wait times are well below critical thresholds for station operation. 
The Cardassian core elements are assembles from subwarp nanoprocessors arranged in parallel packs of 27, 81, 243, or 729 trastator clusters. These clusters are not arranged into any higher level of organization but rather are installed into the core structure with simple ODN connections. The operating system software and autonomous rewrite and switching subroutines handle the real-time divisions of clusters needed for particular processors, isolinear storage banks, and cooling systems. Eight hundred twenty-six EPS microconduits emerge of each core. The distribution blocks ringed about the equator to the main EPS conduits fed by the station's central fusion powerplant.

CORE DATA STORAGE
Isolinear rods are the primary storage medium. Each core is equipped with 104,976 class-4 isolinear rods for primary storage, arranged in 2916 groups of 36 rods. The Starfleet coprocessor and peripherals group provides and additional 526 gigaquads fir its operational memory functions. Memory units are encased in porous ceramic composite housings and surrounded by cryogenic helium-3 for optimal speed and nonvolatility. Data transfer has been clocked at 827 kiloquads per second in idealized heuristic processor test setups. In practice the data rate is slightly slower, at 743 kiloquads per second, owing primarily to the software switching routines. The cores are interlinked by a preliminary dedicated ODN network optimized for core data transfer, prior to connections to the station-wide ODN nodes. The chemical composition and structure of the ODN fibers is such that in-transit error checking can be accomplished within the fiber, as compared to error checking only on the processor side in Starfleet systems. Selected segments of each ODN fiber are extruded like isolinear rods, but of extremely long length, up to 322 meters with no signal degradation. The processing architecture of the fibers can handle up to 2955-bit word code and can be enabled or disabled according to specific software configuration.
Since the core architecture is designed to work around certain types of processor failures, there are no large-scale redundant subprocessors. All ODN I/O paths are hardwired directly into the various station systems being serviced. There are, however, a limited number of backup RF links from critical systems to a set of computer core RF transceivers. Four critical systems, life support, security sensors, weapons systems, and communications, were found to be connected to the computers and dedicated backup control consoles by superconducting cable ribbons. In the event that ODN connections are severed, the individual station systems were designed to switch to auto-safe mode until an operator could assume control. A total of 13,655 ODN bundles interconnect the computer and the various station systems, equaling an estimated 67,900 kilometers of optical fibers. The superconducting control cables are thought to total another 1,300 kilometers.
Short- and medium-range RF links continue to provide data and control connections among station systems, the computers, and portable and handheld devices such as tricorders and padds. All non-station-critical data from visiting or resident entities is processed through stand-alone sections of the cores, which have no direct connection- physical, optronic, subspace, or RF- to the bulk of the core processors.
As with other station systems, control terminals located throughout the station are tied into the ODN and then to the cores. Alphanumeric, graphical, and other visual transmission data are filtered through the coprocessors and peripherals group in both directions. Terminals in all critical locations, including the bridge/ops, environmental control, defensive systems, and power generation, are connected via nine redundant optical circuits so that failures or interference is an many as six circuits will still allow, from a probability standpoint, a correct signal to pass through.

Reference: 
Information provided by:
Deep Space Nine Technical Manual, www.simonsays.com/st, @1998 Pocket Books
