FOOD: gumbo

A Terran Creole vegetable soup dish thickened with pods of the okra plant, on the menu at Sisko's Creole Kitchen. 
Neelix- "Gumbo was another specialty at Sisko's and a favorite of Benjamin's and Jake's. This is a soup made from tomatoes and powdered sassafras leaves- called file'- and contains a generous amount of okra for both taste and texture. As do other Louisiana bayou specialties, gumbo contains the basic celery, garlic, bell pepper, and onion, and may have some bay leaf as well as other spices. It is either piquant or mild, according to taste, can be served with or without meat or chicken, and contains rice. Gumbo is a soup rather than a sauce, so in addition to its being a one-pot dish, it can be a one-meal dish, or something you can have with a nice vegetable and a salad, or a first course to a really sumptuous pasta and shellfish dinner. Gumbo is also a terrific leftover. For either chicken or beef, the base of tomatoes, okra, garlic, bell peppers, celery, onions, and cayenne pepper is the same. You can certainly make it with rice, the way I like it.

1 frying chicken, cut into pieces and floured, optional
2 pounds beef, cubed, optional
1/2 pound bacon or fatback
6 quarts water, boiling
16 ounces canned tomatoes with juice
1 cup tomato juice
2 cups okra, sliced
1 green or red bell pepper, chopped
6 cloves garlic, chopped
4 stalks celery and leaves, chopped
1 medium onion, chopped
2 teaspoons file' (sassafras powder)
1 teaspoon cayenne pepper
1 teaspoon cumin seed, bruised or 1 teaspoon ground cumin
1 tablespoon olive oil
1 teaspoon Tabasco sauce
1 bay leaf
1/2 cup uncooked rice

Begin by rendering your fatback or frying bacon in a large skillet, remove the meat when rendered, and preserve the cooking grease. In flour seasoned with garlic salt and pepper coat the chicken pieces and in the same skillet brown in the bacon grease. After the chicken has begun to turn brown, about 10 minutes on moderate heat, add the tomatoes, garlic, okra, peppers, onions, celery, and olive oil to the skillet and stir through. This mixture will cook together for another 15 minutes. While the chicken and vegetables are cooking, remove 1 cup of water from the boiling water, add rice, bring back to a boil, then reduce to simmer. When the chicken has browned remove it and the vegetables from skillet, drain, set the vegetables aside in a separate bowl, and return the chicken to the skillet. Next remove enough water from the boiling water to cover the chicken completely in the skillet and let simmer for approximately 30 minutes or until the chicken meat separates from the bone. Remove chicken from skillet and debone. Add the vegetables, simmer. At this point your rice should also be done, so remove it from the heat and set it aside. Simmer, but do not boil the chicken and vegetables, for about 30 to 45 minutes or until all the vegetables are nice and soft. Serve with rice on the side.
For beef gumbo, you do not need to flour the beef, although you can if you want to. Whether you flour or not, you should cook your beef in the grease of either fatback or bacon. Begin with about 2 pounds of any cut or cubed stewing meat or a cup of roast that you cube yourself and brown in bacon grease or fatback in a large stew pot. Add 3 quarts water, your bay leaf, garlic, celery, onion, some sprigs of fresh parsley, and pepper. Simmer for at least 2 hours, then skim the fat. Now add the tomatoes and okra to liquid and bring to a rapid boil for about 5 minutes. Reduce heat to simmer and add the gumbo file', cumin, more salt to taste, cayenne pepper, and Tabasco, and simmer for an hour during which time you should cook the rice separately in 1 cup of the stock drawn off from the gumbo. Simmer rice in the gumbo stock until soft, about 25 to 30 minutes. When the rice and gumbo are done, combine in individual serving bowls or let your guests add their own rice at the table.
This is an absolutely perfect soup to serve with another Sisko favroite, bread pudding. Serves four.

Reference: Homefront 
Information provided by:
The Continuum, www.startrek.com, @2002 2006 CBS Studios, Paramount Pictures
The Cookbook, www.simonsays.com/st, @1999 Pocket Books, Ethan Phillips, William J. Birnes
