FOOD: Kohlanese Stew

The replicator makes Kohlanese stew easy because the beef marinade is automatic. Punch in the replicator codes and, bingo, your meat is ready. However, it's not that easy on earth, even though you can punch in the settings for how you want your microwave oven to defrost the cut of meat you're preparing for your version of this stew. The Neelix secret here is to marinate the beef- and it can be anything from a chuck roast to a top round- with ginger and cloves as well as garlic. The result is a stew in which the meat jumps into your mouth and dissolves in a wash of flavor. It also helps to add just the right red wine at the end, and I don't mean Klingon bloodwine either.
2 - 3 pounds chuck or round roast cut into 1 inch cubes
1 medium sized onion, chopped
4 carrots, sliced
2 medium sized tomatoes, chopped
1/2 pound bacon
6 whole black peppercorns
1 tablespoon olive oil
1/2 teaspoon thyme
1/2 teaspoon chopped ginger root
3 whole cloves
2 cloves garlic, sliced
1 sprig parsley
2 cups dry red wine
Believe it or not, this can be a one-dish meal that you can begin the night before and set on slow-cook during the day in your automatic Crock-Pot. When you come home from work, the aroma of fresh Kohlanese stew will invigorate even the most beaten-upon middle manager.
Begin by marinating the beef in a deep heavy skillet for at least 3 hours (or the night before) in 1 cup of red wine, onions, carrots, and seasonings, but not the tomatoes. Those are for later. You should turn the marinating meat every 30 minutes or so, just to make sure that all parts of the meat marinate evenly. If you're using a Crock-Pot instead of a skillet, you will be able to cover the meat in the wine and turn it every hour or so. Marinating adds flavor to meat and tenderizes the tougher cuts.
After 3 hours, remove the meat from the marinade and let it drain. Now, in a separate skillet, dice the bacon and cook it slowly. When it is evenly brown, remove from skillet and allow to drain. Reserve the bacon grease in the skillet and add the olive oil. Now add the meat and brown thoroughly. Add the vegetables from the marinade as well as the bacon pieces, and heat for about 5 minutes. Next add the tomatoes, which you've chopped, and allow to simmer. Finally, you can strain the marinade juices and pour over the simmering meat. Next, add an additional cup of red wine, cover, and simmer for 2 hours, at which point the meat should be so tender you begin to taste it as soon as you remove the cover from the skillet.
You can serve Kohlanese stew over rice or over any type of pasta that strikes your fancy on any particular night. Traditionally, it's served over macaroni, but you can serve it over radiatore, fusilli, rotini, or even good old-fashioned spaghetti. Serves 4 to 6.

Reference:
Information provided by:
ST Cookbook, www.simonsays.com/st, @1999 Pocket Books, Ethan Phillips, William J. Birnes

