FOOD: Matopin Rock Fungi

Kira is really into fungus in a big way, a 'shroom lover from the time she first routed around for the wildest species of these delicacies while hiding from the Cardassians on Bajor. Her favorites are the Matopin rock fungi, tasty little morsels you can only find on the underside of rocks- kind of like the Cardassians, she says, especially Dukat. While I lichen Matopin rock fungi more to the conventional spotted spores of Talax than to the commercially harvested mushrooms of Earth, we can't be too choosy. I like to prepare an Earth version of Matopin rock fungi with oversized mushrooms that I saute in butter and then combine with a canned mushroom soup and spices. You can serve this as a sauce, but I like to make a mushroom pastry out of it by folding it into refrigerated crescent rolls.

1 pound raw mushrooms
8 ounces refrigerated crescent roll dough
8 ounces cream of mushroom soup
1/2 cup butter
3 cloves garlic
1 tablespoon heavy cream
2 teaspoons rosemary
1 teaspoon thyme leaves
salt and pepper to taste

While you preheat your oven to 350 degrees, heat soup in a small saucepan over very low heat. Wash and then scrub the mushrooms then slice, making sure to discard the very bottoms of the stems. Slice the garlic cloves and put them into the butter in a large skillet on medium heat and add the sliced mushrooms. Keep turning and stirring constantly so they don't burn. When the mushrooms are tender, add the soup and stir through. Simmer and add the seasonings. Keep the mixture warm while buttering a baking sheet and them heating it in the oven for about 2 minutes. Remove from oven and arrange the flat dough for each crescent roll on it. Now spoon onto each triangle of dough just enough filing to allow you to fold one corner of the dough over it. Heat them for about 15 minutes, or whatever the package instructions for the rolls call for. The rolls should brown, but not burn. When they are done, remove from over, top with the rest of the mushroom sauce, and serve. Serves two to four.

Reference:
Information provided by:
ST Cookbook, www.simonsays.com/st, @1999 Pocket Books, Ethan Phillips, William J. Birnes
