FOOD: Pilot's Quick Pizza

A favorite of Tom's is pizza. He craved it, you'll remember, when he slowly mutated into a salamander. And on another occasion he practically begged me for a slice. I must say the last thing I wanted to mess with was cheese- the last time I worked with cheese, it went to sickbay, along with the bio-neural gel packs and some of the crew. Tom also loves pizza with Kaferian olives (or green olives or black olives). In my galley, I put everything on my pilot's pizza, from diced targ shin meat to dako kidney, and then spice it all up with Yaderian beeswax. No one knows what's on it, but they gobble it up, except when Tuvok joins Tom for lunch. He had one analyzed recently after biting into a piece of Mogholixian monkey tail and now stays away. I give you my recipe for a quick, homemade, "bread machine" version of Tom's favorite pizza dish, the one he craved when he was unhappily mutating into an amphibious creature. To make a single medium-thin 12-inch pizza crust in your automatic bread machine make ready the following:

3/4 cups warm water
1 tablespoon olive oil
2 1/4 cups all-purpose flour
1 teaspoon salt
1 teaspoon sugar
1 teaspoon dry yeast

First preheat your oven to 400 degrees. Then combine the ingredients in the machine according to the order above and set your bread machine on the "dough only" setting. When the machine beeps at you that the dough is ready, coat your bread or dough board lightly with flour and roll the dough out on the board until thin and approximately 12 inches in diameter, making sure you also gently stretch it with your fingertips to form a raised egde. Finish off the pizza with your favorite toppings in layers:

tomato sauce
packaged shredded mozzarella cheese
lots of garlic and oregano
sliced pepperoni
mushrooms
meat loaf
veggies such as broccoli and spinach

Then bake in 400 degree oven for about 15 minutes or until brown. Check the bottom of your pie after 10 minutes to prevent burning and to look like a professional pizza chef who knows what he's doing.

Reference:
Information provided by:
Star Trek Cookbook, www.simonsays.com/st, @1999 Pocket Books, Ethan Phillips, William J. Birnes
