FOOD: ratamba stew

A Bajoran dish which Sisko combined with spinach linguini. 
Neelix says this traditional Bajoran dish is much like an Earth vegetable stew. You can make it spicy- with garlic, chili peppers (red or green), a whiff of jalapenos, oregano, and parsley- or you can prepare it like a very garlicky mushroom and red or green bell pepper stew with chunky tomatoes, or you can prepare it with eggplant, squash, and rosemary, a la greque, so to speak. Because Sisko prepared his ratamba stew over spinach linguini, we'll start with the mushroom stew, which is perfect for any spinach pasta. Chili pepper stew belongs over angel-hair pasta or even spinach pastina, and Greek vegetables stew belongs over rice. You can prepare the rice with sauteed spinach stirred through it, too.

Mushroom-and-Pepper Ratamba Stew
16 ounces spinach linguini
12 ounces mushrooms, chopped
3 red or green bell peppers, sliced thin
3 whole tomatoes, chopped
2 medium onions, chopped
6 cloves garlic, sliced thin or crushed
3 tablespoons olive oil
2 tablespoons oregano
1 tablespoon dried parsley
salt and pepper to taste
grated Romano or Pecorino cheese to taste

Cook the spinach linguini according to package instructions or until al dente. While the pasta is cooking, heat the olive oil in a large skillet and add the garlic. Just as soon as it begins to sizzle, add the peppers. Wait 5 minutes and add the onions, then the tomatoes and mushrooms. Stir rapidly over medium heat until the tomatoes begin to dissolve. Add the oregano and parsley and cover. When the pasta is cooked, drain and set aside. Simmer the mushroom and pepper stew for 15 minutes. Stir, correct the salt and pepper seasoning, and pour over the spinach pasta, toss through, grate the cheese over the top, and stir through one more time before serving. Serves four to six.

Chili-Pepper Ratamba Stew
16 ounces pinto beans, rinsed and drained
16 ounces kidney beans, rinsed and drained
1 cup tomato juice
6 cloves garlic, crushed and sliced or 5 tablespoons garlic powder
1 medium onion, chopped
1 medium green bell pepper, chopped
2 chili peppers, chopped or 3 tablespoons chili powder
4 ounces jalapeno peppers
1 handful of celery leaves, hand shredded or 1 cup chopped stalks
1/2 cup water
1 bay leaf
2 tablespoons olive oil
1 teaspoon cumin
2 tablespoons oregano
3 whole basil leaves, savagely torn apart

In a large skillet, saute first your garlic in the olive oil, then chopped green pepper next and onion last. Don't let them burn. Next add the tomato juice, 1/4 cup water, celery leaves, and beans, and stir through. Bring the mixture just to the point of boiling and reduce heat. Add the bay leaf, jalapeno and chili peppers and cumin. If you use cumin seeds you will need to score or bruise them by hand as you add them to the recipe. Cook for 15 minutes, than add basil leaves and oregano. Cover and simmer for at least 1 hour. Taste to make sure the flavors have blended, and cook for another 15 minutes. Serve over angel-hair pasta, homeade spinach-and-garlic angel-hair pasta, plain or spinach pastina. Or 1 cup rice prepared with 1 cup chili stew mixed and 1 cup water. Serves four to six.

Eggplant Ratamba Stew
Here's a dish you can keep warm all day in your Crock-Pot or cook up in just under 1 hour. Serve it over spinach pasta or rice for a healthy vegetarian dinner.
1 large eggplant, sliced thin
1 large onion, chopped
2 green bell peppers, chopped
3 medium-sized tomatoes, chopped or 8 ounces canned chopped tomatoes in juice
2 large carrots, cubed
1 handful celery leaves
1/2 cup olive oil
5 cloves garlic, sliced
1 pinch basil
1/2 tablespoon oregano

Preheat oven to 350 degrees and slice your eggplant. You can either peel it or not, depending on the texture you like. Grease a flat baking dish with 1/4 cup olive oil and 2 garlic cloves and heat in oven for about 5 minutes. Then arrange the eggplant slices in the dish, turn once or twice to coat them with oil and bake for 15 minutes while you prepare the rest of the stew.
Brown the pepper, onion, and remaining garlic cloves in a large pot in 1/4 cup of olive oil. Next add the tomatoes, celery leaves, and carrots, and cover. When eggplant has browned, add it to the pot and continue cooking for another 30 minutes over medium heat. Add the remaining ingredients and spices and cook for another 30 minutes or until the carrots are tender. Serve this over spinach pasta, angel-hair pasta, or rice that you've prepared with some of the olive oil, garlic, and tomato liquid from the stew. Serves four to six.

Reference: For the Cause 
Information provided by:
The Continuum, www.startrek.com, @2002 2006 CBS Studios, Paramount Pictures
The Cookbook, www.simonsays.com/st, @1999 Pocket Books, Ethan Phillips, William J. Birnes
