FOOD: sausage

The processed product of various ground-together meat parts (usually pork) contained within an edible "skin" was part of the native Germanic cultural festivities of New Berlin's lively ethnic Mazurka Festival, served with beer. 
Lwaxana Troi's jestral tea order from the replicator in her own cabin came out as several feet of Petrokian sausage-the first sign of what turned out to be the metal parasites' infestation of the ship. 
Things got real muddy for Captain Jean Luc Picard on the U.S.S. Enterprise-D during one confusing week when both Ambassador Lwaxana Troi and Alexander Rozhenko teamed up to turn Lieutenant Worf's life into a Klingon test of restraint. Not only would his son Alexander disobey him, not displaying even the slightest sense of discipline, but Lwaxana Troi decided to turn the young man into a free thinker. Klingons aren't freethinkers, take it from me, a Klingon for a day with those crazy Hirogen. So you can see how unhappy Worf was when Alexander wound up naked in a mud bath with Lwaxana Troi.
All this meant something to me when I read that one of the first signs of the ship's failure occured when Lwaxana's favorite Jestral tea, a mild, sothing, and relaxing drink, did not show up in the replicators when Troi asked for it. Instead of tea, she found a plate of hearty Petrokian sausage. This is a dish that I learned to make from Petrokian descendants who migrated to the Delta Quadrant millions of years ago. From dealing with these people, I learned that Petrokian sausage is similar to something the Klingons call "blood sausage or blood pudding," which they traditionally prepared from fresh targ blood and spices. You can make this at home even though you probably don't have fresh targ. Here's how. You'll need the following:"

1 dozen natural sausage casings
2 cups fresh pork blood
1 pound pork fat or fatback
2 eggs, beaten
1 cup chopped onions
1/2 cup heavy cream
1 bay leaf
1/2 teaspoon thyme
pepper to taste

Gentle saute your onions in a greased medium-sized skillet until they become transparent, but not brown. Set them aside. Mince the fatback or pork fat into large pieces, then fry it until it becomes partially rendered. Remove from heat, set aside, and let cool while you mix cream, eggs, thyme, and pepper in small bowl. After the pork fat has cooled, add it to the mixture. You don't want to add hot pork fat, because it will curdle the milk and fry the eggs. Stir lightly, and the stir in the pork blood. Fill each sausage casing about 3/4 full and seal by tying a tight knot with butcher's twine or any clean string.
Boil water in a large pot and place your filled sausage casings in a wire basket. lower it into the boiling water and keep the water at a low boil for 30 minutes, piercing the sausage casings with a long fork to relieve internal pressure that would cause the skins to split. When the sausages are done, you can cook them again on a grill, in a skillet, or over a barbecue. Split them in half first and put the open sides facedown on the skillet or grill.
You can serve these as gyro sandwiches, over udon noodles as blood sausage and gagh, or with heavily seasoned angel-hair pasta and a deep blood-red wine.

Reference: Cost of Living, The Maquis
Information provided by:
The Continuum, www.startrek.com, @2002 2006 CBS Studios, Paramount Pictures
The Cookbook, www.simonsays.com/st, @1999 Pocket Books, Ethan Phillips, William J. Birnes
