FOOD: tranya

An orange beverage of the First Federation, first tasted by Starfleet crews in 2366 aboard the Fesarius, has become more widely known: the Curzon/Odo entity ordered it "very cold" at Quark's for he and Sisko. 
Neelix- "Nobody onboard the old Enterprise knew what this stuff was except that it was orange and could be served hot or cold. Captain Kirk, Dr. McCoy, and the too-emotional Lieutenant Bailey first tried tranya onboard the tiny craft piloted by the strange creature named Balok, who was tricked out of his shoes by Captain Kirk's corbomite bluff. Tom told me that what came to be known in the Starfleet logs as Kirk's corbomite maneuver is now a standard academy exercise. I think I noticed Captain Janeway employing versions of it once or twice, especially when she had to gain the cooperation of the Borg to allow us to pass freely through their space.
"Balok happily served the visiting Kirk, McCoy, and Bailey tranya, and over an Earth century later, the drink wound up in Quark's, where Lieutenant Dax seemed to drink this delightfully refreshing beverage cold, which is how I plan to serve it for Tom's next birthday, or hot, which is how Quark serves it on Deep Space 9. Cold, it's simply an orangeade with some other citrus fruits added for flavor. Hot, it's orange-brewed pekoe or black tea. Here are the recipes:

Cold Tranya
8 juice oranges
1/2 gallon ice-cold water
1/2 cup confectioner's sugar
1 lemon or lime, sliced

Squeeze or use your juicer to extract the juice from the oranges, mix- with as much pulp as you please- with water, add the sugar, and stir. Chill and garnish each serving with a lemon or lime slice. You can also use packaged orange juice in place of fresh squeezed, but nothing tastes better than fresh. Serves eight to ten.

Hot Tranya

black or pekoe tea, loose or in bags
1 orange, juiced
1/8 teaspoon grated orange rind
1 or 2 whole cloves

This is a per-serving recipe. You can brew your ta in a cup, with an infuser, a tea ball, or a tea bag. Here's a trick: don't just splash in the boiling water, scald the cups first with boiling water that you then discard. Add your tea then pour in the water. If you have an electric tea infuser or are using a teamaker, follow the instructions for the appliance.
As your individual mugs of tea are brewing, squeeze the orange(s), and then add it to the tea after it's steeped. Add the cloves and serve. You can also prepare this by the pot, adding the orange juice and cloves directly to the pot after the tea has steeped and serve individually.

Reference: The Corbomite Maneuver, Facets
Information provided by:
The Continuum, www.startrek.com, @2002 2006 CBS Studios, Paramount Pictures
The Cookbook, www.simonsays.com/st, @1999 Pocket Books, Ethan Phillips, William J. Birnes
