PERSONNEL: Leah Brahms
PhD, engineering designer, Utopia Planitia

A member of the Theoretical Propulsion Group who helped design the warp engines on the Enterprise-D at the Utopia Planitia Fleet Yards in 2358. A graduate of the Daystrom Institute of Technology, Brahms made major contributions to the Galaxy-Class Starship Development Project, far beyond her official role as a junior team member. 
In 2366, to learn more about the engine design of the Enterprise-D, Commander Geordi La Forge re-created Dr. Brahms's image in the holodeck. The holographic character was much friendlier than the real person, and La Forge developed a strong attraction to her image. 
By 2367, Brahms was married and had been promoted to Senior Design Engineer of the Theoretical Propulsion Group. She visited the Enterprise-D that year to inspect the field modifications made to the ship's engines by La Forge, and much to his dismay, she was highly critical of La Forge's work. Brahms also strongly objected to his having programmed a holographic replica of herself, noting that doing so without her permission constituted an invasion of privacy. Nevertheless, the two engineers pulled together in a crisis and became friends. 

TIMELINE:
: Born, Martian colonies
: Graduated from the Daystrom Institute
: Joined the Theoritical Propulsion Group, Galaxy-class engines, Junior member
: Awarded the Federation Ribbon of Excellence for engineering
: Married
: Promoted to Senior Member, Theoritical Propulsion Group, Sovereign-class engines
2367: Visited the U.S.S. Enterprise-D to review field engine modifications made by Commander Geordi La Forge.
2371: Divorced

Reference: Booby Trap 
Played by Susan Gibney who also played Erika Benteen in "Paradise Lost." In an early script of "Booby Trap" Brahms was named Navid Daystrom, presumably a descendant of Dr. Richard Daystrom. Unfortunately the casting department did not realize that this should have required a black actor to play the part until after Susan Gibney had been hired. At the suggestion of script coordinator Eric A. Stillwell, the character was renamed, but the Daystrom tie-in was kept by adding a line stating that she had graduated from the Daystrom Institute. Susan Gibney was a strong competitor for the part of Captain Kathryn Janeway.
Information provided by:
The Continuum, www.startrek.com, @2002 2006 CBS Studios, Paramount Pictures
The Encyclopedia, www.simonsays.com/st, @1997 Pocket Books, Michael & Denise Okuda, Debbie Mirek


