PERSONNEL: Chang
General, chief of staff, Qo'noS

Chief of staff to Klingon Chancellor Gorkon who was involved in the conspiracy to assassinate Gorkon in order to obstruct peace initiatives between the Klingon Empire and the Federation. 
General Chang was part of the Klingon delegation aboard the Kronos One, which was transporting Gorkon to Earth for historic peace talks in 2293. Chang came aboard the Enterprise-A, the Federation escort ship, for a diplomatic dinner, and he delighted in meeting Captain Kirk, whom he regarded as a fellow "warrior." However, later he arrested Kirk along with Dr. McCoy for the murder of Gorkon, and successfully prosecuted them on the Klingon homeworld. He put on a good show in the farcical trial, all along covering up his role in Gorkon's death from his Klingon colleagues, including newly installed chancellor Azetbur. He was apparently the one who arranged for a cloaked bird-of-prey to fire upon the Kronos One and knock out its gravity, allowing two "hit men" to beam aboard and fire upon the off-guard Klingons, effectively framing Kirk. 
Chang was fond of quoting Shakespeare for virtually any occasion, including his final showdown with Kirk from the prototype vessel that could fire weapons while remaining cloaked. When he realized that a torpedo ejected from the Enterprise would detect his ship and seal his fate, his final words were "To be or not to be." 

Reference: The Undiscovered Country 
Played by Christopher Plummer. In addition to Chang's numerous Shakespearean quotes, his demand in court that Kirk answer a question without waiting for a translation is a paraphrase of American Ambassador Adlai Stevenson, who made the same demand of Soviet Ambassador Valerian Zorin at the United Nations during the Cuban missile crisis in 1962.
Information provided by:
The Continuum, www.startrek.com, @2002 2006 CBS Studios, Paramount Pictures
The Encyclopedia, www.simonsays.com/st, @1997 Pocket Books, Michael & Denise Okuda, Debbie Mirek
Star Trek in Sound and Vision, www.stinsv.com, @2002 Dave & Richard

