PERSONNEL: Christine Chapel
Commander, Doctor, medical operations officer, Starfleet Emergency Command

TIMELINE:
2266: As brevet ensign, signed aboard U.S.S. Enterprise of Capt. James T. Kirk as nurse
2267: Became head nurse to Enterprise Chief Medical Officer Leonard McCoy, MD.
2271: After five-year mission, promotion to lieutenant and completion of medical degree, named CMO to Capt. Will Decker on refit U.S.S. Enterprise until relinquishing title to McCoy for V'Ger crisis
2286: As a commander, directed Starfleet Emergency Operations in wake of whale-song aliens

Christine Chapel began her medical career aboard the U.S.S. Enterprise, sacrificing a biology career with several university degrees in research medicine to search for her lost fiancé, Dr. Roger Korby, who had been missing for five years, ever since his last communication from Exo III. When Korby was found on Exo III in 2266 and subsequently discovered to be an android, Chapel elects to remain with the starship, where she became good friends with Uhura and a good friend to Dr. McCoy. Emotionally, her early shipboard life, as admitted when infected with the Psi 2000 virus, was marked by an acknowledged unrequited love for Spock - an ongoing issue which never interfered with her professional duties. Upon completion of the five-year mission she finished her own medical degree and was slated by 2270 to be CMO on the refit U.S.S. Enterprise under Will Decker. Even so, she willingly stepped down to allow McCoy's return as CMO for the V'Ger crisis with Kirk.
Some 15 years later, Chapel had won commander's bars by the time she oversaw responses to the whale-song aliens' "invasion" as director of Starfleet Emergency Operations. Shortly thereafter, she had contacted Sarek about speaking on Kirk's behalf during his inquiry before the Federation Council for theft and disobeying direct orders related to the Genesis device and rescue of Spock's body and "katra." 

Reference: The Naked Time, 
Played by Majel Barrett who also played Lwaxana Troi and the starship computer voice in Next Generation, Deep Space 9, and Voyager episodes. She is also known for having performed numerous voices in the animated series, the Beta 5 computer in "Assignment: Earth," and was married to Gene Roddenberry. She was also known as M. Leigh Hudek and played Number One in "The Cage." The Continuum featured an entry for "Dr Chapel" and presented an image of Grace Whitney's cameo from "The Search for Spock"- both items were a mistake since the entry should not have been separate from this one, and the pic indicated the wrong person.
Information provided by:
The Continuum, www.startrek.com, @2002 2006 CBS Studios, Paramount Pictures
The Encyclopedia, www.simonsays.com/st, @1997 Pocket Books, Michael & Denise Okuda, Debbie Mirek
Star Trek in Sound and Vision, www.stinsv.com, @2003 Dave & Richard


