PERSONNEL: Dathon
Captain, starship commander

Captain of a Tamarian starship who gave his life to establish communication and understanding with the Federation. "The Children of Tama," as his race calls itself, had encountered Federation vessels seven times in 100 years, but formal relations were never established because their language was deemed incomprehensible. In 2368 Dathon's ship made overtures again by sending a subspace signal of a standard mathematical progression from the El-Adrel system, located halfway between Federation and Tamarian space. When the U.S.S. Enterprise-D arrived, Dathon transported himself and Captain Picard to the surface of El-Adrel IV, and the Tamarian ship created a field to prevent any further transport or communications with them. While isolating himself and Picard on the planet, Dathon hoped that face-to-face contact and a shared danger would enable Picard to grasp the unusual nature of his language, which is based entirely on metaphors from Tamarian mythology. 
Dathon and Picard confronted an invisible beast on the planet, and when the Enterprise - unaware of the circumstances - managed to briefly get a transporter lock on Picard, Dathon was left on his own and sustained fatal injuries. In Dathon's dying moments Picard was finally able to decipher most of what he was saying. The sacrifice was so meaningful to the other Tamarians that "Picard and Dathon at El-Adrel" became a new chapter in their history and another entry in their lexicon. Picard praised Dathon for being so committed to the hope of communication and connection with another people that he would put his life on the line, making Picard wonder if he would do the same. 

Reference: Darmok 
Played by Paul Winfield who also played Captain Terrell in "The Wrath of Khan."
Information provided by:
The Continuum, www.startrek.com, @2002 2006 CBS Studios, Paramount Pictures
The Encyclopedia, www.simonsays.com/st, @1997 Pocket Books, Michael & Denise Okuda, Debbie Mirek
