PERSONNEL: Kahless 
Also known as Kahless the Unforgettable
Emperor, planetary leader, Qo'noS

The legendary first emperor of the Klingon Empire, Kahless not only united his people some 1,500 years ago but set the standard for the conduct of honor and strength all Klingons live by today. All Klingon children learn the tales of Kahless and his brother Morath, who fought for 12 days and 12 nights because Morath had broken his word and dishonored his family, killing their father. According to legend, Morath then threw their father's sword into the sea to prevent Kahless from having it, but he held his breath for three days and found it. As an adult, Kahless forged the first bat'tleh and founded the Empire after slaying the tyrant Molor a battle celebrated with the Kot'baval festival and conquering the Fek'Ihri. Legend also tells of many other exploits: how he once fought off an entire army by himself at Three Turn Bridge, skinned the serpent of Xol, and carved a statue for his beloved Lukara. As his first wife, they had met after fending off 500 warriors at the Great Hall at Qam-Chee when the city garrison fled. Their vows in that incident are one of the most romantic Klingon rituals of mating ever, often recreated by modern couples. After delivering the laws of honor in later life, Kahless went to the edge of his city and made 'The Promise' to his weeping people that he was leaving to guard the afterlife of the honored dead in Sto-Vo-Kor but would return someday. On the planet he pointed out that night, Boreth, a caste of clerics sprang up to await the day he would return. Only they knew how he created the first bat'tleh from a lock of hair thrust into Mount Kristak a tale intended to verify his identify upon return, as it did when a clone of Kahless, taken from blood on the Knife of Kirom, was created and allowed to serve as perfunctory emperor and spiritual guide in 2369. 

TIMELINE:
500: Born
: He fought his brother Morath
: Defeated Molor
: Won the battle at Qam-Chee
: Married Lukura
: Traveled to Sto-Vor-Kor
2369: Cloned, reinstated as Emporer

Reference: The Savage Curtain, New Ground, Birthright, The Way of the Warrior, Looking for por'Mach in All the Wrong Places, The Sword of Kahless, Blood Oath, Rightful Heir, Let He Who Is Without Sin...
Played by Kevin Conway, and Robert Herron as the early Terran representation. When the Excalbians created a replica of Kalhess for Kirk to fight against, it is assumed that they used an image from Kirk's mind, and not the real Kahless. That would explain why the first representation appears so different from the resurrected clone seen in the Next Generation and other series. Of course it is because the Original series did not have the budget to create elaborate make-up designs for its aliens like those monies applied to the subsequent series.
Information provided by:
The Continuum, www.startrek.com, @2002 2006 CBS Studios, Paramount Pictures
The Encyclopedia, www.simonsays.com/st, @1997 Pocket Books, Michael & Denise Okuda, Debbie Mirek
Star Trek in Sound and Vision, www.stinsv.com, @2002 Dave & Richard
LCARS Communication Network, www.lcarscom.net, @2002 Sean Stevenson
