PERSONNEL: Regina Melar
Lieutenant, Chief Tactical Officer, U.S.S. Sutherland

A Vapà citizen, currently serving on within Starfleet and the only one of her kind.
Regina was a mistake. Vampires are not suppose to be able to procreate with humans, their genetics are not compatible. When she was born, she became the only one of her kind. She calls herself Vapà because she does not fit in either the Human category, or in the Vampire category.
Because of her unique heritage she can only spend about 8 hours per day in direct sunlight. If she spends any longer than that, she begins to revert to her primitive urges and will kill anything to get its blood. She requires regular plasma doses to keep her youthful appearance. These doses are administered through her food via the replicators. Artificial light doesn't effect her as long as there isn't any ultraviolet light in it.
Gina, as she is affectionately known, is an accomplished warrior (she has had almost 200 years to hone her skills). She outwardly appears gentle, but she can be very brutal at times. She is 5'5" tall; has long blonde hair that reaches to the middle of her knees when down and her complexion is pale. Her eyes are sapphire blue but when she gets upset, angry, or agitated, her eyes turn yellow or red, depending on how upset or agitated she becomes.
She prefers the company of Klingons to any other. She feels that they are more like her than any other species. And like her warrior friends, her hobbies include Medieval weapons, battle simulations, reading, history, and legends.
Regina entered Starfleet Academy in 
After graduation she was posted to the U.S.S. SpaceQuest DSV, and was promoted to Deputy Chief of Security. She was then transferred to the U.S.S. Omega and assumed a position as Helmsman. After that she was transferred to Starbase 64 and its attached vessel, the U.S.S. Vortex. 

TIMELINE:
: Born August 23 in Egypt, Earth
: Accepted to Starfleet Academy
: Graduated from Starfleet academy
: Transferred to U.S.S. Omega
: Transferred to U.S.S. SpaceQuest 
: Transferred to Starbase 64 & U.S.S. Vortex
: Transferred to U.S.S. Sutherland

FAMILY:
Father:	Mokare		Vampire
Mother:	Shelon		deceased

COURSEWORK:
CLASSIFIED

Reference: Starfleet Academy Series
This is the fictional biography of a close friend of the writer of the Starfleet Academy series.
Information provided by:
Star Trek Stories, www.startrekstories.homestead.com, @2000 Sylvia Averill
Starfleet Academy, www.geocities.com/starfleet_academy_2373, @2000 Kenn Ferguson
