PERSONNEL: Alyssa Ogawa Powell
Lieutenant, chief nursing officer, U.S.S. Enterprise-E

Full Name: Alyssa Ogawa Powell
Species/gender: Human female
Marital status: Married Lt. Andrew Powell in 2370 
Starfleet Career Summary 
2367 -- Assigned as an ensign to medical department, U.S.S. Enterprise 
2370 -- Promoted to lieutenant junior grade following annual personnel evaluation 
Psychological Profile: Report of Ship's Counselor Deanna Troi 
Quickly rising to become one of the chief medical officer's major nurses and surgery assistants, Alyssa Ogawa displays a healthy cheerfulness and concern for her patient as will as a cool head in the type of crisis her career demands. 
A bit conservative in her personal life, Ogawa enjoyed a Holodeck visit to Paris with a date in 2368 but wasn't sure about a more intimate trip to the infamous resort on Risa. Her personal life picked up pace in the next year: after dating Ens. Markson, she became engaged to Lt. Andrew Powell at the time of her promotion only a few weeks later; the two were soon married, although she opted to continue using her maiden name professionally. Sadly, her pregnancy ended in a miscarriage later in the year during Captain Picard's time-slipping incidents, but not until after her womb's amniotic fluids had helped save the crew from the de-evolution of the Barclay T-Cell Syndrome. 
Professional Assessment: Report of CMO Beverly Crusher, M.D. 
Ogawa has assisted this surgeon with high skill and flying colors under numerous stressful situations, including the revival of the captain when in the grip of a Kataaran neural probe beam, assisting during highly experimental surgery to replace the chief of security's spinal column, and the crash of the vessel's saucer section on Veridian III in 2371. Ogawa has also demonstrated a personal bond and trust with her superior that no one in the department currently can match, risking her career to perform a banned Ferengi autopsy during my temporary and unwarranted relief from duty in 2369. 

Rederence: Future Imperfect, Identity Crisis, The Host, The Game, Ethics, Clues, Cause and Effect, The Inner Light, Man of the People, Realm of Fear, True-Q, Suspicions, Imaginary Friend, Attached, Genesis, Parallels,  Generations, First Contact, Insurrection, Nemesis
Portrayed by Patti Yasutake. During her first few appearances she was simply referred to in the scripts as nameless nurse. Eventually, script coordinator (and writer) Eric Stillwell was asked to come up with a Japanese name for Patti's character. Eric called Suzi Shimizu, the TNG budget estimator, for suggestions. They chose the first name Alyssa, for Suzi's daughter, and Ogawa, for Suzi's maiden name.
Information provided by:
The Continuum, www.startrek.com, @2002 Paramount Pictures
The Encyclopedia, www.simonsays.com/st, @1997 Pocket Books, Michael & Denise Okuda, Debbie Mirek
Star Trek in Sound & Vision, www.stinsv.com, @2003 Dave & Richard
