PERSONNEL: Montgomery Scott
Captain, 
Serial Number: SE-197-54T

Scott, known as "Scotty" as well as "the miracle worker" to his longtime comrades James T. Kirk and crew, was the chief engineer aboard the original U.S.S. Enterprise and its successor craft who resurfaced 75 years after his presumed loss en route to the Norpin Colony in 2369 - perhaps his biggest miracle of all. Bullish on his Scottish ancestry, he wears ceremonial kilts with his dress uniform, plays the bagpipes and is renowned for his love of Scotch and his beverage collection from all parts of the galaxy. 
Once calling himself "an old Aberdeen pub-crawler," Scott began active service in Starfleet in 2242, midway through the Academy, and served on a total of 11 ships - including a stint as engineering advisor on the asteroid freight run from planet Deneva. Kirk's original U.S.S. Enterprise was his first posting as chief engineer beginning in 2264, and his engineering feats more than once saved that starship. He returned to oversee the major refits of the ship in 2269-71, its successor the NCC-1701-A in 2286, and the short-lived transwarp engines tested on the prototype U.S.S. Excelsior a year earlier. 
Scotty had bought a boat in anticipation of his retirement three months after the Khitomer peace conference in 2293, but Kirk persuaded him instead to come back to active duty. On hand for the ceremonial christening of the U.S.S. Enterprise-B, he helped save the newly launched starship from destruction by the Nexus temporal ribbon and save El-Aurian refugees, witnessing Kirk's apparent death in the process. 
He finally did retire the next year at the age of 72, after 52 years in Starfleet, but for years was presumed lost with his courier ship U.S.S. Jenolen en route to the Norpin Colony, his new home. Not until 2369 was it discovered he was the only survivor of the ship's crash on the exterior of a Dyson Sphere, kept alive only as a transporter beaming loop until, ironically, he was rescued by an away team from the U.S.S. Enterprise-D - so disoriented that he thought Kirk had come to rescue him. After trading barbs and quips with Chief Engineer Geordi La Forge and helping to save that Enterprise, he received a permanently "loaned" shuttlecraft, the Goddard, from Captain Jean-Luc Picard and set off to roam the galaxy. 
Although Scotty was never married, he became involved with fellow crew member Mira Romaine in 2269 until she was transferred to Memory Alpha soon afterward. In later years Uhura expressed an interest in romance, but they never got together seriously. 

TIMELINE: 
2222: Born
2240: Entered Starfleet Academy
2242: As ensign still enrolled at Academy, began first starship posting 
2244: Graduated from the Academy
2264: As lieutenant commander, became chief engineer under Capt. James T. Kirk, U.S.S. Enterprise 
2269: Promoted to commander, oversaw refit of Enterprise at Earth 
2285: Promoted to captain, oversaw test of transwarp drive for U.S.S. Excelsior under Capt. Styles 
2286: Tried but cleared of wrongdoing in theft of U.S.S. Enterprise before UFP Council 
2293: Scheduled retirement but called into service for Khitomer peace mission; witnessed christening of U.S.S. Enterprise NCC-1701-B and death of Kirk 
2294: Presumed lost in U.S.S. Jenolen upon retirement en route to Norpin Colony 
2369: Rescued from 75-year transporter loop aboard downed Jenolen, left to roam on his own with U.S.S. Enterprise-D shuttlecraft Goddard 

Reference: Where No Man Has Gone Before, Devil in the Dark, Whom Gods Destroy, Who Mourns For Adonais, The Lights of Zetar, The Motion Pictures, The Wrath of Khan, The Search For Spock, The Voyage Home, The Final Frontier, The Undiscovered Country, Relics, Generations
Played by James Doohan, who also performed voices for Trelane's father in "The Squire of Gothos," Sargon in "Return to Tomorrow," the M-5 computer in "The Ultimate Computer," and the Melkotian buoy in "Spectreof the Gun," as well as numerous characters in the animated series.
Information provided by:
The Continuum, www.startrek.com, @2002 2006 CBS Studios, Paramount Pictures
The Encyclopedia, www.simonsays.com/st, @1997 Pocket Books, Michael & Denise Okuda, Debbie Mirek
Star Trek in Sound and Vision, www.stinsv.com, @2003 Dave & Richard
