PERSONNEL: Shendro Thelev
Commander

BORN: 2340
PLACE OF BIRTH: Andor (Fesoan)
ORIGIN: Andorian
ASSIGNMENT: U.S.S. Pike NCC-22500
LAST SHIP: U.S.S. Hunter NCC-22630
ACADEMY CLASS: 2362, 98th percentile
BIOGRAPHICAL DETAILS: Shendro comes from the planet Andor (called Fesoan by the indigenous inhabitants), a Class M planet in the Epsilon Indi system. The Andorians are unique in that they possess both mammalian and insect physiology. They have blue skin and a pair of long antennae on their heads. Andorians consider themselves a violent race and make great warriors. Shendro has trained with his Father since he was a child. Learning every fighting style known came easy to him and by the time he reached adult hood he was the best fighter in his family. Shendro entered Starfleet in the year 2358.
STARFLEET DETAILS: After leaving the Academy, Shendro was first assigned to the U.S.S. Hunter under the command of Captain Timothy O'Connery. He served as a security officer for 4 years where he earned the rank of Lieutenant. In 2371 he single handedly saved the lives or four Ambassadors from an assassination attempt. For his bravery he was promoted to the rank of Lieutenant Commander and offered the job of head of Security aboard the U.S.S. Pike. Shendro has recently been promoted to Commander for his bravery. Shendro manned a shuttle alone and lured a Dominion war ship into a trap set by the Klingon ship Keg'tok. The Dominion ship was destroyed by the Keg'tok and Shendro barely beamed out of the shuttle before it was destroyed by the explosion from the Dominion ship. The U.S.S. Pike is still patrolling the Cardassian border.
ACHIEVEMENTS, AWARDS: First Level Pilot Certificate; Advanced martial arts expert; Preantears Ribbon of Excellence; Starfleet Citation for Conspicuous Bravery; Starfleet Distinguished Service Medal; Klingon medal of Honor.
FAMILY: mother, name and whereabouts not on file; father, Salith Thelev, deceased.
INTERESTS: Weapons training, Martial arts training, and Klingon Opera.

