PERSONNEL: Tolian Soran
Ph.D, Scientist, Amargosa Observatory, Amargosa system

Dr. Soran's wife and children were killed when the Borg attacked the El-Aurian homeworld. Soran was among hundreds of refugees fleeing to  Earth in 2293 aboard a convoy of El-Aurian transport ships, when the convoy collided with the nexus ribbon. Both ships, the SS Robert Fox and SS Lakul, were destroyed, but Soran and 46 others from the Lakul were rescued by the crew of the Starship Enterprise-B. Also rescued in the incident was fellow El-Aurian Guinan (see file). As Soran was being rescued by transporter, he was briefly pulled into the nexus, where he experienced a powerful euphoria, and he became subsequently obsessed with returning to the nexus at any cost. The key, he found, was to find a way to force the nexus ribbon to travel through a planet, an unlikely occurrence given the vastness of interstellar space and the relatively small size of planets. Soran worked for nearly a century, devising a horrific scheme to use trilithium explosions to destroy selected stars, thereby controlling the trajectory of the energy ribbon. He enlisted the aid of Klingon renegades Lursa and B'Etor to steal trilithium from a Romulan research facility. In exchange, Soran offered technical data on the use of trilithium for weapons applications. Soran's plan was discovered in 2371 when he destroyed the Amargosa star with a trilithium-laden probe launched from the Amargosa Observatory. U.S.S. Enterprise-D personnel intervened to prevent Soran from destroying a star in the Veridian system. Had Soran succeeded, the destruction of the star would have cost the lives of 230 million life-forms on planet Veridian IV. Former Enterprise Captain James T. Kirk, who had also been swept into the nexus in the Lakul rescue, played a critical role in stopping Soran, an effort that cost Kirk his life. Tolian Soran was killed when his trilithium probe launcher exploded on the surface of planet Veridian III.

Reference: Generations 
Information provided by:
The Continuum, www.startrek.com, @2002 Paramount Pictures
The Encyclopedia, www.simonsays.com/st, @1997 Pocket Books, Michael & Denise Okuda, Debbie Mirek
Star Trek in Sound & Vision, www.stinsv.omc, @2003 Dave & Richard
