PERSONNEL: Trent
Ensign, Operations officer, U.S.S. Sutherland

Trent


Native of the planet Angel One and aide to Beata, the Elected One, in 2364. Being male, Trent was assumed to be less capable and more emotional than women. 
Reference: Angel One 
Information provided by:
Star Trek Continuum, www.startrek.com, @2002 Paramount Pictures
A native of Angel One and assistant to the former head of state of that world. As a typical male on that planet he was subjected to the planet's matriarchy. He was raised as a second class citizen because of his gender. In school he was very popular as an athelete and as a very attractive looking male. His looks earned him work as a model and as an escort. His escort duties allowed him to attend many social functions that he would not normally have had the status to enter on his own. As he got used to such events he developed an interest in politics. At one political rally that he was escorting someone to he was introduced to Beata, a leader in her party. He was recruited to serve in her campaign center where he helped her win several elections that worked her way up through the government. 
Trent was  the assistant to Beata, the head of state when the Federation made first contact with that planet in 236#. The population was a pre-warp civilization but contact was necessary when a Federation freighter, the S.S. ??? crash landed on the planet. The U.S.S. Enterprise-D was dispatched to collect any survivors. The starship personnel made formal contact with the head of state and secured permission to search the planet for the missing Federation citizens. Mr. Trent was assigned as a liaison to the away team. 
The whole episode started an uprising in the planet's government and Mistress Beata was deposed, and her entire cabinet dismissed. Radical changes in the government began to allow for more rights for men in their culture. But, out of work, Trent went looking for a new job within the political structure he was aware of, which included the Federation personnel working in the new Embassy. He was easily granted a good job there as a diplomatic aide. While working there he endeared himself to the Federation Ambassador and secured his sponsorship to the Starfleet Academy.
After being admitted to the Academy, but before he actually transferred to Earth to enter the Presidio, he took remote classes through the Embassy. It was able to secure him credits for his familiarity with several of the course's requirements. Trent had a difficult time adjusting to Academy life. He was assigned a full time counselor and was placed on academic probation for most of his schooling career. He was easy pressured by the women of campus, even those in positions under him. He was granted early graduation along with the majority of his class to support the Dominion War effort.in 2372. He was posted to the U.S.S. Sutherland and commissioned as an Ensign. He was originally assigned as a bridge relief officer, but after having unsatisfactory dealings with Commander Libby, his department head, he was transferred to engineering operations and worked for Commander Lando.
His psyche test reveals many strong points about his personality and his intellect. But it also reveals the obvious fact that he has a problem dealing with authority with women. He clearly gives them too much control compared to his make superiors.

TIMELINE:
: Born on Angel One
: Entered high school
: Began his career in modeling and escort services.
: Recruited to work for the ???? political party.
: Beata won election as planetary Mistress, Trent assigned as assistant.
: First contact made with Federation, Trent assigned as liaison.
: Beata and staff were overthrown, Trent placed out of work.
: Trent began work for Federation Embassy.
: Entered Starfleet Academy.
2372: Graduated from the Academy, commissioned as Ensign, posted to the U.S.S. Sutherland

FAMILY:
CLASSIFIED

COURSEWORK:
CLASSIFIED

Reference: Angel One, Starfleet Academy series
In the televised episode Trent was played by Leonard Crowfoot.
Information provided by:
Starfleet academy, www.geocities.com/starfleet_academy_2373, @2000 Kenn Ferguson
