PERSONNEL: Shane Tumaloor
Cadet 2nd class, engineering program, Starfleet academy

A laid back "blondes have more fun" stereotypical party cadet. Born in Ft. Lauderdale, Florida, Earth on March 17, 2357 to Joseph and Tanya () Tumaloor. Shane is an only child form a family of child birth problems. His maternal grandparents, Carl and Elizabeth (), and his paternal grandparents Francis and Melissa Tumaloor all had only one child each, with several miscarriages in each family. His mother also suffered two miscarriages before Shane's birth. Shane's mother underwent gynecological surgery after his birth to prevent future problems.
Physically Shane is 2.01 meter tall blonde male, weighing 77 kilos, with light blue eyes. He had always been a tall child throughout his development, and even large at birth; .61 meters and 3.5 kilos. As typical of all blondes, his hair lightens in the summer, during intense light, and darkens in the winter with less intense light, but at its darkest point it is lighter than most modes for natural blondes. His hair often borders white in the summers of Florida. Shane has a "swimmers" build and a good deep tan skin color. His physical appearance is mostly natural but he does keep mindful of it and therefor participates in physical games instead of regular exercise.
Shane has always been a playful child, receiving a lot of attention. As an only child, and only grandchild, his elders devoted a lot of time to his care. His parents worked as travel agents and traveled much during Shane's life. Many times he was left in the care of a set of grandparents. In school, his good looks attracted the attention of many of his schoolmates.
His physical good health made him very versatile when it came to sports which he played many. In high school he swam the butterfly stroke on the school swimming team, and was a distance runner on the school's cross country team.
He was catcher and team captain of the varsity baseball team. He lettered in each sport.
His psyche test revealed a natural ability with computers, engineering, and analytical thought. He also showed a strong ability to work and lead others. He could not free think or "brainstorm" well, nor could he create a task of jobs himself. He needs direction from a superior officer to start a new task after one is completed. He also does not work well alone. He can delegate authority and tasks without a problem, but often pairs himself up with someone to do a task that requires two or more people rather than a task than could be done by one person. 

TIMELINE:
Born, March 17 in Ft. Lauderdale, Florida, Earth
Graduated from Beachfront High School
Accepted and admitted to Starfleet Academy

FAMILY: 
Father: Joseph Tumaloor
Mother: Tanya Tumaloor
Paternal Grandfather: Francis Tumaloor
Grandmother: Melissa Tumaloor
Maternal Grandfather: Carl
Grandmother: Elizabeth

Reference: Fall Semester, et al Starfleet Academy
Information provided by:
Starfleet Academy, www.geocities.com/starfleet_academy_2373, @2000 Kenn Ferguson
