PERSONNEL: Nyota Uhura
Commander, ddjunct faculty, Starfleet Academy

Uhura served as communications officer aboard the Enterprise on one of its early five-year missions, under the command of James T. Kirk. It is not unusual to see her rewire or repair her own communications board during a crisis. 
In Swahili the name of Uhura, a striking black woman, translates to "freedom," and she speaks that language fluently. She also has a singing voice and was known to entertain members of the U.S.S. Enterprise crew, accompanying herself on the Vulcan harp. Uhura has shown some romantic interest in Scotty, but it was never pursued. After her memory was wiped in 2267 by the space probe Nomad, Uhura spent considerable time relearning the huge pieces of information the probe had destroyed. 
Uhura served at Starfleet Command on Earth after the reassignment of the original U.S.S. Enterprise to Starfleet Academy in 2284, where part of her duty was to give lectures. Prior to the Khitomer peace conference, Uhura returned to her former post on the U.S.S. Enterprise-A at the request of Captain Kirk. 

TIMELINE: 
2239: Born, Africa, Earth, to M'Umbha
2257: Entered Starfleet Academy
2261: Graduated from the Academy
2266: Communications officer, U.S.S. Enterprise, under Capt. James T. Kirk 
2271: Promoted to lieutenant commander, refit U.S.S. Enterprise under Capt. Will Decker 
2277: Assigned to Starfleet Academy cadet training and Starfleet Command communications 
2285: By now a commander, aboard U.S.S. Enterprise for rescue of Genesis development team 
2286: Inquiry dismisses charges related to theft of U.S.S. Enterprise 
2287: Oversees communications on new U.S.S. Enterprise NCC-1701-A 

Reference: The Corbomite Maneuver, The Motion Picture, The Wrath of Khan, The Search For Spock, The Voyage Home, The Final Frontier, The Undiscovered Country
Information provided by:
Played by Nichelle Nichols.
The Continuum, www.startrek.com, @2002 2006 CBS Studios, Paramount Pictures
The Encyclopedia, www.simonsays.com/st, @1997 Pocket Books, Michael & Denise Okuda, Debbie Mirek
Star Trek in Sound and Vision, www.stinsv.com, @2003 Dave & Richard
Nichelle Nichols fan club, www.uhura.com, @2002 Nichelle Nichols
