PERSONNEL: Edward Christopher Wasser
Lieutenant, jg, U.S.S. Sutherland, science officer

A brilliant young officer born in Ypsilanti, Michigan, earth; July 2, 2352 to Christopher James Wasser and Marianne Julia (Smith) Wasser. Ed came from a large family living close to each other. Ed's immediate family included his father, mother, and his sister Samantha Nicole, born August 8, 2355. 
The family lived in a Starfleet housing community within visual range of his father's immediate family members, including his brother, sister, and parents. Terrance Neal and wife Amanda Jane Wasser, the older brother to Christopher, lived across the neighborhood courtyard with their son Mark Thomas. At the other end of the courtyard lived Christopher's younger sister Stephanie and her husband Leonard Paul Anderson and their two children Daniel Scott and Keith Peter. And at the entrance of the courtyard lived Ed's paternal grandparents, Allen and Carroll Kaye (Nowlin) Wasser. This close family unit interacted with each other greatly as a result of their close proximity to each other. They regularly shared babysitting chores, resources (food and supplies), family outings, and holiday time.
Ed's maternal family had little contact with him as a child. Nearly every Christmas Day, Easter Day, and Thanksgiving Day the group spent time together from 2p to 6p (local time) for formal dinner and interaction. The lack of other contact was not the fault from lack of concern, but the family was spread out over several planetary systems and Ed's mother was not very close with her family unit while she grew up; which translated into emotional distance for her subsequent family. Instead he grew up with the extra attention provided by his paternal family, and with the social support of friends that he made while attending school.
Ed attended public schools in the Huron Valley School District of Michigan which included students from multiple cities in the region. That is where he met his best friend, Matt Morden, in Arborland Elementary, Ann Arbor, Michigan, Earth. While there he was tested for, and declared a genius at age 8, then allowed into supplemental school that encourages and develops gifted and talented children. He had declared an interest in sciences and was given the opportunity to move in that direction. He took courses in astronomy and geology at the supplemental school. He has always shown natural aptitudes for engineering and computers which have helped him in his education.
His hobbies include Icthyology and he has set up several saltwater tanks for himself and several family members. In his pursuit of his hobby he has spent many trip to exotic Earth locations like the Great Barrier Reef, the Caribbean, Mediterranean, and the Indian Ocean studying and collecting specimens for his reef systems.
His psyche test reveals a strong analytical mind, reminiscent of Vulcan training. He uses technology well and is very comfortable with computers. He tends to rely too heavily on computers and technology though. When a crisis situation occurs, his first reaction is to repair the equipment rather than come up with remedies that do not use the technology.

TIMELINE:
2352: Born, August 8 in Ypsilanti, Michigan, Earth
2355: Sister, Samantha Nicole, was born
2360: He was declared a genius and allowed to attend supplementary schools.
2370: Graduated from Huron Valley High School and entered the Starfleet Academy.
2373: He was posted to the U.S.S. Sutherland for a field experience to support the Dominion War effort.
2373: He was granted early graduation from the Academy and commissioned as a full Ensign.
2373: For extraordinary valor during a crisis in the war he was promoted to Lieutenant jg and made acting chief science officer of the U.S.S. Sutherland.
2373: After the war he returned to the Starfleet Academy for graduate work and to teach Tricorder Operations courses.

FAMILY:
Father	Christopher James Wasser		2326	
Mother	Marianne Julia (Smith) Wasser	2320
Sister	Samantha Nicole Wasser		2355	student, freshman, University of California- Los Angeles, California, Earth
Paternal:
Father:	Allan Lionel Wasser		
Mother:	Carroll Kaye (Nowlin) Wasser
Uncle:	Terrance Neal Wasser		2321
Aunt:	Amanda Jane Wasser		2326
Cousin: 	Mark Thomas			2349
Aunt: 	Stephanie (Wasser) Anderson	2329
Uncle:	Leonard Paul Anderson		2330
Cousin:	Daniel Scott Anderson		2353
Cousin: 	Keith Peter Anderson		2355
Maternal:
Father:	Franklin Smith
Mother:	Adelaide (Travolta) Smith
Aunt:	Rene (Smith) Vogel
Uncle:	Richard Vogel
Cousin:	Mark Vogel			2352
Wife:	Jean (Crawford) Vogel		2354
Cousin:	Ronald Vogel			2354
Cousin:	Nicole Vogel			2358
Aunt:	Erin (Smith) Charles		2327
Uncle:	Jonathan Charles			2324
Cousin:	Susan (Charles) Lopez		2342
In-law:	Edward Lopez			2340
Cousin:	Peter Lopez			2364
Cousin:	Allan Lopez			2368
Cousin:	James Tyler Charles		2346
Wife:	Rhonda (Sheridan) Charles	2347
Cousin:	Mia Charles			2365
Cousin:	Michael Charles			2366
Cousin:	Simon Charles			2367
Cousin:	Tracey (Smith) Cameron		2349
Husband: Ronald Cameron		2347
Cousin:	Robin Cameron			2369
Cousin:	Martin Cameron			2370

COURSEWORK:
Advance placement courses:
LCARS
Astronomy I
Space Anamolies
Geography
Geology
Summer semester, 2370, freshman year
Orientation
Fall semester, 2370, freshman year
Protocol
Tricorder Operations
Transporter Operations
Sensor Probes
Federation History
Intercultural Species
Winter semester, 2371, freshman year
SEWG
Self Defense
Basic 1st Aid
Introduction to Communications
Federation Government
Prime Directive
Spring semester, 2371, freshman year
Meteorology
Ecology
Helm & Navigation
First Contact
Botany
Away Teams
Summer semester, 2371, freshman year
Field Experience
Fall semester, 2371, sophomore year
Astronomy II
Probability & Statistics
Hydroponics
Surveying
Broadcasting
Life Support Systems
Winter semester, 2372, sophomore year
Zoology
Periodic Elements
Cultural Diversity
Xenobiology
Spring semester, 2372, sophomore year
Nuclear Analysis
Subatomic Analysis
Xeno-1st Aid
System Diagnostics
Summer semester, 2372, sophomore year
Space Walking
Fall semester, 2372, junior year
Astronomy III
Cartography I
Vulcan Culture
Winter semester, 2373, junior year
Metallugical Analysis
Computer Cores
Icthyology
Spring semester, 2373, junior year
Stellar Chartography
Observation Blinds
Data Structures
File Processing
Summer semester, 2373, junior year
Field Experience (mandatory to support the war effort)
Early Graduation
Fall Semester, 2373, graduate studies
Duotronics
Isolinear processing
Computer designs
Contemprary Issues
Morals & Ethics
TAUGHT- Tricorder Operations

Reference: Starfleet Academy series
Information provided by:
Starfleet Academy, www.geocities.com/starfleet_academy_2373, @2000 Kenn Ferguson
