PERSONNEL: Winn Adami
Kai, spiritual leader, Bajor

Duplicitous woman who become kai, the spiritual leader of Bajor, in 2369. Winn was a conservative Vedek during the occupation and claimed to have been beaten for her religious teachings. In an attempt to become kai she battled with a rival, Vedek Bareil Antos. To that end she searched for evidence that inplicated Bareil in the infamous Kendra Valley Massacre.  Winn also created controversy aboard Deep Space 9 in an attempt to draw Bareil to the station where an accomplice attempted to assassinate him. After becoming kai, she used Bareil in negotiations with peace Cardassians, despite the hazards to his health. Winn, who came from a conservative order conspired with Minister Jaro Essa to support the Circle movement. 
In 2371 Winn was appointed to be the planet's first minister, following the death of Minister Kalem, to finish off his term. During that time she was involved in the controversy involving a pair of soil reclamators. Her decision to issue the reclamators to a government project instead of the scheduled farmers sparked a small civil war of the Dahkur province. The Shakaar resistance cell regrouped in an effort to oppose the decision to return the machines to the government until the end of the original agreement. They were put up against the planet's militia. Shakaar Edon and Kira Nerys were able to convince the head colonel to disobey orders and help him to keep the machines. Shakaar became motivated to run for election to oppose the previously unopposed kai. She withdrew from the election.
After becoming kai, Winn resented bowing to Ben Sisko as the so-called Emissary. In 2372 she supported Akorem Laan in the role of Emissary after he emerged from the wormhole hundreds of years after his assumed death. Akorem initiated a cultural change and encouraged the population to re-adopt the D'jarra system of a caste society which also prevented them from obtaining Federation membership. Winn's unhappiness made it easy for Gul Dukat and the Pah-wraiths to seduce her. Winn eventually accepted Benjamin Sisko as the emissary after he discovered the elusive city of B'hala and was ashamed that she ever doubted him. At the end, Winn reneged on her pact with the devil and gave the Emissary the key to saving Bajor and the Prophets. Winn died in the fire caves of Bajor. 
Two-faced woman who became Kai, the spiritual leader of Bajor, in 2369. Winn was a conservative Vedek during the occupation and claimed to have been beaten for her religious teachings. After becoming Kai, Winn resented bowing to Benjamin Sisko as Emissary. Winn's unhappiness made it easy for Gul Dukat and the Pah-wraiths to seduce her. At the end, Winn reneged on her pact with the devil and gave the Emissary the key to saving Bajor and the Prophets. Winn died in the fire caves of Bajor. 
Reference: In the Hands of the Prophets 
Information provided by:
Star Trek Continuum, www.startrek.com, @2002 Paramount Pictures

Reference: In the Hands of the Prophets, The Circle, Rapture, The Collaborator, Life Support, Shakaar, Accession 
Played by Louise Fletcher.
Information provided by:
The Continuum, www.startrek.com, @2002 2006 CBS Studios, Paramount Pictures
The Encyclopedia, www.simonsays.com/st, @1997 Pocket Books, Michael & Denise Okuda, Debbie Mirek
Star Trek in Sound & Vision, www.stinsv.com, @2003 Dave & Richard
