PERSONNEL: Worf
Ambassador, liaison to Qo'noS, Qo'noS

Federation Ambassador to Qo'noS; previously, strategic operations officer, Deep Space Nine and first officer, U.S.S. Defiant
Date of birth: Earth equivalent: Dec. 9, 2340
Place of birth: Qo'noS, Klingon Empire
Parents: Son of Mogh; foster parents Sergey and Helena Rozhenko
Education: Starfleet Academy, 2357-61
Marital status: Widowed: married to Jadzia Dax, 51247.5 (died 2374)
Children: One son, Alexander, born 43rd day of Maktag (Earth equivalent 2366)
Quarters: Currently relocating to Qo'noS from residence at DS9; formerly, Enterprise Deck 7, Sect. 25B
Starfleet Career Summary 
2364 - As lieutenant j.g. in command division, assigned to U.S.S. Enterprise as relief con and tactical officer under Capt. Jean-Luc Picard, later made acting security chief. 
2365 - Promoted to lieutenant, named permanent Enterprise security chief. 
2367 - Resigned Starfleet commission to fight in Klingon civil war. 
2368 - Starfleet commission reactivated, no change in rank. 
2371 - Promoted to lieutenant commander. Took detached leave from Enterprise after loss of vessel. 
2372 - Transferred to command division for assignment on Deep Space Nine under Capt. Benjamin Sisko. 
2373 - On detached leave in command of U.S.S. Defiant and on service with Sovereign-class U.S.S. Enterprise, helped repel Borg temporal invasion. During mission to Gamma Quadrant, captured by Dominion and held captive on Jem'Hadar internment camp until successful escape. Assigned to serve aboard I.K.S. Rotarran under command of General Martok during Dominion occupation of DS9. 
2374 - Resumed service on DS9 under Capt. Sisko. Dispatched on mission to rendezvous with Cardassian operative/defector Glinn Lasaran, but abandoned mission to save wife, receiving serious reprimand in service record. Served aboard Defiant during Chin'toka offensive. 
2375 - Commanded U.S.S. Defiant for three months during Capt. Sisko's absence. Served as first officer during successful Klingon mission to destroy Dominion shipyard at Monac. Commanded I.K.S. Koraga when ambushed by Dominion patrol near Badlands, forcing evacuation; ultimately rescued by Ezri Dax, but then captured by Breen and held captive by Dominion for execution until released by Cardassian resistance. Defeated Klingon Chancellor Gowron in challenge to death; handed over chancellorship to General Martok. Served as tactical officer aboard U.S.S. Defiant during final battle of Dominion war. Accepted position as Federation Ambassador to Qo'noS. 
Psychological Profile: Report of Starfleet Counselor Telnorri, DS9 Service Area
Update to Enterprise File Report by Counselor Deanna Troi 
As the only Klingon in Starfleet, Worf has already achieved an illustrious and honorable career aboard the U.S.S. Enterprise as well as played a key role in Empire politics, but he keenly feels the effects of an often tragic life caught uniquely between the two conflicting cultures - immediately evidenced by the traditional Klingon baldrics he wears over his Starfleet uniform. This inner-felt conflict stems in part from his perception of honor as taught but not always practiced by his native people, and is complicated by family relationships which echo his duality of culture in both his personal and public life. Worf has even been put on report. 
He was born into a powerful political house on Qo'noS and carries vivid memories of a typical Klingon childhood. On his first ritual hunt before the age of six with his father's friend L'Kor, he attacked a large beast and it mauled his arm, providing a lifelong scar. 
However, Worf's life was changed forever in 2346 when his family was wiped out by Romulans at the Khitomer Outpost along their border; he has no memory of his father. The young man was thought to be the only survivor, and was soon adopted by Chief Sergey Rozhenko, a human engineer nearing retirement aboard the U.S.S. Intrepid, which provided the first assistance at the scene. 
The next year Worf lived with him, his wife Helena, and their son Nikolai among 20,000 colonists on the farm world Gault and later Earth, where the bigger and stronger Worf had a hard time adjusting to less-violent human culture and the two boys often disagreed. Finally, at the age of 13 while playing in a championship game as captain of his school soccer team, he unintentionally broke the neck of an opponent and the boy died a day later - forever guilting him into a life of restraint among humans. On the other hand, the Khitomer incident instilled in him a life-long hatred of Romulans. 
To feed his thirst for his native people's culture, the Rozhenkos consciously exposed Worf to as much as they possibly could - serving him Klingon food, including his favorite rokeg blood pie, and sending him to Qo'noS for his initial Age of Ascension ceremony in 2355, at age 15. As usual, when on the homeworld he stayed with a cousins' family but felt rejected and ran away to the nearby mountains. There, while undergoing the Rite of MajQua in the lava caves of No'Mat, the vision of the original Klingon warrior Kahless came to him, prophesying that Worf would do what no other Klingon had done. 
Worf entered Starfleet Academy with Nikolai in 2357, but his impetuous brother left school and returned to Gault while Worf went on to graduate in 2361. The fear of depending on others to protect him had been the prime point of his own entrance exam's psych test. 
In 2364 he signed aboard Picard's U.S.S. Enterprise in command division as a junior-grade lieutenant, at the time wearing a century-old Klingon baldric. After the death of Security Chief Tasha Yar, he became acting chief and then assumed the post full-time in early 2365, switching to security full-time n the operations division and gaining a promotion to full lieutenant. His shipmates formally promoted him to lieutenant commander six years later with a ceremonial holographic ocean-dunking on an ancient Earth naval vessel. 
Aside from a few weeks of dating fellow officer Deanna Troi in 2370 on the U.S.S. Enterprise, his most serious romance to date involved the half-human Ambassador K'Ehleyr. Worf had ended their initial affair in 2359, during his Academy years, but K'Ehleyr refused to begin anew and take vows after they mated in 2365 during her mission regarding the T'Ong sleeper ship incident. 
Worf's family tree took on surprising twists during his U.S.S. Enterprise career, beginning with the trumped-up charge that Mogh had betrayed Khitomer to the Romulans. The resulting probe turned up not only a second survivor and eyewitness to the massacre, his old nursemaid, but a younger brother who'd been left behind on Qo'noS, Kurn. Even when the traitor was proven to be not Mogh but Jared, father of the powerful Duras, Worf later accepted discommendation from Klingon society rather than cause an uproar in Empire politics had the cover-up been revealed. 
Worf was shocked to discover in 2367 that his interludes with K'Ehleyr had fostered a son, Alexander, when she accompanied the dying Klingon Chancellor K'mpec while old foe Duras, a challenger for succession, was a suspect. With her mate and son present, K'Ehleyr died after being attacked by Duras when she drew too close to the truth about Khitomer, and Worf in anguish killed Duras on his own ship. His captain was more than understanding, as he had been when Worf refused to donate blood to save a Romulan, but he was put on formal report for his actions. 
During the Klingon Civil War of 2367-68 Worf felt compelled to resign his Starfleet commission to become involved, but it was reactivated after the war. During that time he persuaded Kurn to support Gowron against Duras' sisters and their Romulan backers, standing up to the sisters when abducted and tortured. His aid of the victor Gowron eventually restored his family's honor, and Kurn won a seat on the High Council. 
Mogh was later rumored to be alive in a secret Romulan prison on Carraya IV, but though Worf's covert 2369 mission found the rumor to indeed be false he did discover - and agree to keep secret - a colony of shamed Klingon survivors from Khitomer, led by his father's old friend, L'Kor, and their Romulans guards who'd resigned to live with them. 
Worf dipped back into Klingon politics in 2370 after he questioned his own faith in the teaching of Kahless following the Carraya IV incident. His visit to the caves of Boreth, the legendary site of the great warrior's predicted return, was shaken up when Kahless did appear to return. Although later found to be cloned from ancient relics of the original Klingon warrior by the Boreth clerics, the response of spiritually empty Klingons to his presence led Worf to insist that Gowron accept the cloned Kahless as a returned Emperor and moral leader - in effect creating a constitutional theo-monarchy. 
He was even reunited with his foster brother Nikolai in 2370, when the two clashed again over the human's saving of the doomed Borallan village against Picard's orders and the Prime Directive to save his pregnant mate, a native. The two parted more amicably after the incident, however. 
After his mother's death Alexander was initially sent to live with the Rozhenkos on Earth, but a year later Helena returned with him to plead that Worf take him back for support and guidance. The two shared a testy relationship at first, but thanks to sessions with the ship's counselor - whom he eventually selected as the boy's foster parent if need be - they fared better. When a shipboard accident left him paralyzed, Worf considered the ritual Hegh'bat suicide until both Riker and Troi talked him out of it, pointing to Alexander's need for a parent; an experimental genotronic spine later restored his health. Shocked in 2370 to find his son returned through a time loop from 40 years in the future, be began allowing Alexander to find his own way - even if it was not the way of a Klingon warrior. 
During his U.S.S. Enterprise tenure, he birthed Keiko O'Brien's baby in Ten-Forward during a shipwide crisis in 2368, his only prior experience having been a Starfleet emergency first aid class. He dislikes surprise parties and diplomatic duty. 
He also taught mok'bara classes to those interested aboard ship, won a bat'leth tournament on Forkas III in 2370, and for a time tutored Dr. Crusher on the weapon; there is no word that he took her offer to join her acting workshop. He trains with a multi-level holo-program of personal combat "calisthenics," has also played Parrises Squares, and picked up the nickname "Iceman" from his U.S.S. Enterprise poker play. Other interests include Klingon novels, love poetry, and a love of Klingon opera. His favorite beverage, christened as a "warrior's drink" when introduced to it by Guinan, is prune juice. 
Following the destruction of the Enterprise and break-up of its staff in 2371, Worf sent Alexander once again to live with the Rozhenkos on Earth and went on extended leave to revisit the Klingon monastery and clerics of Boreth in search of a spiritual answer to the letdown the rapid events provoked. He found their discussions enlightening and considered resigning his Starfleet commission, but in early 2372 he accepted Captain Benjamin Sisko's request to join the Deep Space Nine staff in light of renewed Klingon friction after dissolution of the Khitomer Accords and their short-lived invasion of the Cardassian Empire. He had all but decided to resign and join a Nyberrite cruiser crew when the Deep Space Nine offer persuaded him to stay, having felt that his Starfleet uniform was a disgrace to his own people. 
Early on in the assignment Worf admitted to continued bouts of depression over the end of what he perceived as glory days on the Enterprise, and countered it somewhat by taking quarters on the station's starship, the U.S.S. Defiant, and finding a kinship with Dax, who trains with the bat'leth and mek'leth as well. 
He soon got the chance to meet Klingon legend Kor, but that honor too was ripped away when image gave way to reality as the two fought over the Sword of Kahless relic they found on a quest. 
Worf's public opposition to Gowron's invasion left him largely unaffected until the Empire attempted to frame him for the so-called slaughter of 141 Klingon civilians amid a skirmish; the hoax was revealed only shortly before he would have been extradited for the crime and faced certain death. However, on Qo'noS his house was once again stripped of its honor and properties, including Kurn's seat on the High Council. 
His depressed brother showed up on the station asking for his own suicide rite. Only Dax's interruption stopped the ritual Worf was aiding, but after Kurn's unsuccessful death wish as a Bajoran deputy Worf realized his brother had no future and, short of suicide, opted to have his memory wiped and replaced with another Klingon identity, sending him to live with a family friend. Even then he lived with the regret that his actions had been forever tainted by his human-learned values of mercy. 
Disciplinary Notation: Captain Jean-Luc Picard, SD 44248 
It is with regret that I make this entry in the personal file of Lt. Worf, whom I consider a fine officer. However, despite whatever sympathy I have for his personal reasons and the ways of his culture I cannot condone murder by anyone wearing the Starfleet uniform. The officer in question is spared further disciplinary action only due to the circumstances of the location aboard the Klingon vessel Vorn and the not-unexpected indifference of the Klingon Empire to the incident. 
Psychological Profile:
Update SD 50500, DS9 CMO J. Bashir, M.D. recording 
Sparked by his spurning by Grilka and his uncharacteristic aid to Quark on wooing her the Klingon way, Worf's immediate friendship with Lt. Cmdr. Dax has now blossomed into full-blown romance; luckily she is one of the few species on the station compatible with the physical demands of the situation. The arrangement with Dax as his Par'machkai has stopped short by mutual consent of the traditional mating step required and seems to be affecting Worf in a positive way, aside from the squabble on Risa when what I perceive as Worf's reactionary tendencies held sway during his brief alignment with some New Essentialist activists there. 
Worf has encountered few further difficulties regarding his divided heritage. He had no problem helping to expose secret Klingon mining of the space around outer Bajoran colonies and fighting his brethren of a century ago when time-traveled to Station K-7. He was part of the covert team trying to prove Gowron was actually a Changeling double earlier this year, and sparked a challenge to the death with the chancellor. Although the team helped expose General Martok as a Founder, Worf left with the two still at odds over his defiance of Gowron a year earlier that cost the House of Mogh its official honor. 
His biggest qualm has been a quest for privacy, and took quarters on the usually empty Defiant to relieve the edginess he had felt ever since arriving here. I am told he often can be found there listening to Klingon opera blaring over the com system, usually from his favorite singer Barak'karan - not surprisingly, a traditionalist. 
He continues to utilize the Holo-programs for recreation, including his combat "calisthenics," commanding the historic Battle of Tong Vey, but has no stomach for zero-G exercises. His posting here has broadened his horizons in at least two ways: he has renewed his study of the Ferengi Rules of Acquisition, and has admitted a healthy respect for native Bajoran beliefs concerning the Prophets based on his own spiritualism. 
Personnel Update:
Starfleet Personnel Review Board, SD 50900 
Worf commanded the Defiant in Admiral Hayes' fleet against the second Borg invasion ca. SD 50890, and briefly found himself back with his old colleagues on the new Sovereign-class Enterprise when Picard rescued the Defiant's crew and fought off the Borg's would-be temporal sabotage. 
Worf's action in recovering a new Jem'Hadar vessel intact ca. SD 50050 has already been duly noted in the record. 
Disciplinary Notation: Starfleet Intelligence, SD 51604 
Under the temporary command of Major Kira Nerys, Lt. Cmdr. Worf and Lt. Cmdr. Jadzia Dax were assigned to rendezvous with a Cardassian operative, Glinn Lasaran, who had been passing military intelligence to Starfleet for two months. Lasaran requested a face-to-face meeting with Starfleet representatives at coordinates in the Badlands, in order to personally convey information about the whereabouts and activities of Founders in the Alpha Quadrant. As was learned later, in exchange for the information, Lasaran desired immediate assistance to defect from the Dominion, in fear for his life. 
Worf and Dax attempted to rendezvous with Lasaran on Soukara, outside a Dominion base. During a two-day hike through the planet's jungle, Dax was injured by a Jem'Hadar patrol. An anti-coagulant rendered Dax untreatable. Worf then opted to abandon the rendezvous in order to return Dax to a Starbase for surgery. Lasaran was killed attempting to re-enter the Dominion base after a two-day absence. 
The information Lasaran had to offer would likely have brought the war to a swifter end, thus saving millions of lives. Jadzia Dax is highly valued by Starfleet, but every officer puts his or her life on the line every day for the common good. Worf was aware of his duty, and the consequences of failure, and nonetheless deserted his mission for strictly personal reasons. 
Therefore let it be noted that Worf is reprimanded for his conduct of SD 51597-51600. No formal charges shall be filed due to the sensitive nature of the case, but this notation shall hereby render Lt. Cmdr. Worf ineligible for any further promotion or any permanent command position in Starfleet. 
In addition, Worf's commanding officer, Capt. Sisko, has been instructed that Worf and Dax are never to be assigned to missions on their own again. 
Personnel Update:
Starfleet Personnel Review Board, SD 52950 
At the behest of Admiral Ross and Klingon Chancellor Martok, Lt. Cmdr. Worf has petitioned this board to allow him to conclude his service as a Starfleet officer and transfer to the Federation diplomatic corps in the position of Ambassador to Qo'noS. Worf's service record with Starfleet has been distinguished - and eventful to say the least - but certainly not spotless. A number of disciplinary notations and other dubious actions (e.g., resigning his Starfleet commission to fight in the Klingon Civil War of 2367-2368) necessarily limit his ability to advance much further in rank or responsibility in this agency. Bureaucratic considerations aside, though, he deserves high commendations for his crucial role in the Alliance victory over the Dominion, particularly his efforts to bridge the political gap between the Federation and the Klingon Empire. The Alpha Quadrant has much to thank Mr. Worf for. 
Despite his conflicts and struggles over being a Klingon amongst human and other Federation cultures, he remains loyal to the UFP and its ideals. Plus, he has the respect of the Klingon people due to his defeat of the late Chancellor Gowron in a bat'leth fight. We believe the Qo'noS ambassadorship is the most ideal role for Worf to fulfill at this time. Therefore this board grants approval to Worf's transfer, and trusts that his presence on the Klingon homeworld will ensure a continued peace between our peoples. We wish him luck. 

Reference:
Information provided by:
Played by Michael Dorn who also played his own grandfather in The Undiscovered Country and the voices throughout numerous audio books and computer and video games.
The Continuum, www.startrek.com, @2002 Paramount Pictures
The Encyclopedia, www.simonsays.com/st, @1997 Pocket Books, Michael & Denise Okuda, Debbie Mirek
Star Trek in Sound & Vision, www.stinsv.com, @2003 Dave & Richard
