CLASS: B'Vista
TYPE: runabout

A large, two deck runabout designed by the Grazerite government for carrying dignitaries and officials and was in very wide use before the Ambassador class starship was designed. After the U.S.S. Grazeri was assigned to the homeworld the runabout dropped in significance and was mainly used for transport through the Grazerite solar system and colonized enighbors; longer travel was saved for the Starfleet ship.
The second deck of the craft was a luxurious passenger section with two suites in the bow, and staterooms along the sides. The center area featured a comfortable seating area set into the decking, lower than the surrounding cabins. The rear of hte passenger section offered a small galley and replicator station. Aft of that was an ample cargo hold for a ship of its size. Additional hold space was available under the staterooms and surrounding the centralized seating area. This lower cargo space was also divided up by the mechanisms for the movement and storage of the landing struts.
The aft section had access to the engineering room where one or two crewmen could have access to the warp coil and main systems. At the very aft were the impulse drives. One the top deck in the aft was a lateral matter/ anti-matter injection system that ran side to side of the craft. Above it were the fuel tanks, positioned appropriately so that the dueterium tank was above the matter injectors and the anti-matter pods in a likewise placement.
The rest of the first deck were the control stations for the craft and crew. Just in front of the engineering controls were the crew bunkhouse for the maximum six persons. In the center of the deck was a circular staircase that allowed access to the passenger compartment. This area was made off limits in commerical liners, and left open for chartered and private craft. Forward yet were the environmental systems, ship's batteries, and transporters. In the bow of the top deck was the main bridge. The top deck was not as large as the lower deck.
To the sides of the craft were the warp nacelles, supported by short wings that carried the plasma fuels to the injectors. These wings smoothly blended with the main forward facing crescent shaped wings that are typical in all Grazerite designs. These main two side wings undercut the second deck and seperated that from the lower cargo hold. The wings fulfilled the usual duty of housing the anti-grav emitters and tractor beam projectors that assist the craft with movement, landing, and hovering. Each of the warp nacelles were adorned with forward facing crescent shaped wings in a ventral position with air foils for atmospheric entry.
These craft are still used by the government. United Federation of Planets President Jaresh Inyo keeps one available to himself in Paris, France, Earth and aboard his starship for times when it could be of assistance. The U.S.S. Grazeri had its shuttlebay modified to accept the very large craft into its hold; and so has the hold of other presidential escorts in Earth orbit. B'Vistas that are used for this purpose are equipped with extra shielding, ablative armor, microtropedo launchers, Type 6 phaser emitters, and have refit warp drives that can allow the craft to exceed warp 9.2; the craft normally cannot achieve warp 7.

This ship is a conjectural design.

Reference: pon-farr
Information provided by:
Starfleet Academy, www.geocities.com/starfleet_academy_2373, @2000 Kenn Ferguson


