SHIP CLASS: Enterprise
TYPE: heavy cruiser

The first of a new generation of warp 5 starships designed for long-term space travel and scientific discovery, launched in April of 2151 under the command of Captain Jonathan Archer. Enterprise NX-01 was the culmination of 32 years of research and development at the Warp Five Complex by Archer's father, Henry Archer, and other scientists inspired by Zefram Cochrane. Enterprise's warp 5 engine put humanity within reach of thousands of inhabited worlds, compared to the small handful at lower warp speeds, for the first time. 
The Enterprise-class utilized the dual-nacelle design that was first employed by Cochrane's Phoenix. Most of the crew's activities took place in a large saucer section, which contained crew quarters, science departments, a sickbay, cargo bays and an armory. The bridge - the command center of the ship - sat atop the saucer section. The front of the saucer section was equipped with a "deflector" that protected the ship from space dust and other particles that would otherwise cause significant damage at faster-than-light speeds. 
The ship was usually equipped with two shuttlepods in its launch bay, even though the bay could accomodate four cimilar craft. Each could accommodate a pilot and up to six passengers. Capable of sub-warp speeds only, the shuttlepods were designed to take away teams short distances from Enterprise, such as to the surface of a planet or to another nearby ship or space station. A shuttlepod launched by dropping down through the "bomb bay" doors from the launch bay, then once it was safely positioned below the starship's hull, it reoriented itself toward its destination. The shuttlepods were equipped with enough oxygen for two crewmembers to survive more than 10 days. The launch bays were equipped with mechanical/ magnetic grapplers that could be used to tow stray shuttlepods back into their resting points, or for collecting other space items for study.
The Enterprise-class was also equipped with a transporter system, designed primarily to beam cargo and technology to and from the ship. Prior to launch of the prototype the transporter platform was approved for use with biomatter, but the crew was still wary of using it on themselves, preferring instead to get around in the shuttlepods. 
When away teams returned from alien environments where they were at risk of exposure to unusual radiation or microbes, they would receive a bioscan in the decon chamber. If the scan detected anything out of the ordinary, the team would strip down to minimal clothing and apply a phosphorescent gel to their skin to neutralize any pathogens, while they are bathed in ultraviolet light. 
The ship's galley was stocked with genuine foodstuffs, but is also equipped with a protein resequencer, which could replicate a limited menu of basic dishes such as pasta, soup and simple beverages. For the most part, meals were prepared by the ship's galley crew, headed by a chef who was handpicked by Captain Archer for his own vessel. Aside from the primary mess hall, there was also the captain's mess, a small, private area where Archer, among others took their meals along with specially invited crewmembers and guests. 
Com panels allowed communication among crew members located in different parts of the ship. Positioned on walls in virtually every section of the vessel, the com panel were activated by tapping a control and addressing the person being contacted. 
Enterprise relied on polarized hull plating to protect itself against enemy weapons. When the hull plating was down, the ship was vulnerable to attack. As for offensive capabilities, the ship was equipped with spatial torpedoes which were launched from torpedo bays. While in-flight, the Enterprise crew completed three prototypes of a phase cannon, a phase-modulated energy weapon rated for a maximum power output of 500 gigajoules. The phase cannons were deployed with retractable turrets that extend from the hull and fired energy beams at their targets. 
Enterprise was also equipped with a "grappler" which consists of two large magnets deployed by extremely long tethers, used to latch onto a shuttlepod or a small alien ship for rescue or defensive purposes. 
Long-range communications with Earth are made possible by a series of subspace amplifiers known as Echo-series, which were deployed by Enterprise on its first deep-space mission in 2151. 
In case of an emergency, the ship was equipped with several escape pods or "lifeboats" that can evacuate crewmembers before a disaster. The lifeboats have a maximum speed of 300 kph. Enterprise-class also has a number of "black boxes" which record the ship's telemetry for investigative purposes in case of such a disaster. 
The starship was designed with living accomodations and recreation space to sustain 85 crewmembers. Additional crew can be added or  removed for specific missions. The Enterprise also carried a MACO team during one of its missions in addition to its full compliment.

Reference: Broken Bow (TV and novelization), et al episodes of Enterprise, Shockwave (novelization)
Information provided by:
The Continuum, www.startrek.com, @2002 Paramount Pictures
Star Trek Novel Encyclopedia Group, www.stneg.org, @2006 Deb J S
