FLEET: Jem'Hadar vessels

A variety of ships operated by the military race of the Dominion. Crewed by the genetic Jem'Hadar soldiers, these ships are commanded by the Vorta liaison officer assigned to each team and the troop's First. 
Not much study has been able to be done on these types of ships since contact with the species is relatively recent, but Captain Benjamin Sisko was able to acquire one of their warships after it was located crashed on a planet in the Gamma Quadrant. That particular ship was never disassembled and studied as many captured ships are. Instead it was put back into use by Sisko and his officers from the U.S.S. Defiant to infiltrate Cardassian space and destroy a ketra-cell white warehouse. The warship was later attacked and crash landed on a planet within a nebula outside of Federation space so recovery efforts are not likely. But from the small time Starfleet did have possession of the craft they were able to learn many things about the conventions of all Jem'Hadar craft.
Jem'Hadar vessels are equipped with polaron beam weapons and possibly more weapons. Their defensive shields are capable of repelling all known transporter and tractor beams, but their beams are not equally limited. In fact, many times Jem'Hadar soldiers have beamed aboard Starfleet vessels and stations even while shields were up. While Dominion transporters have been known to transport passengers up to 3 light years away, it is unclear whether the starships are equipped with that kind of device, or if their machines are limited versions of the technology. Jem'Hadar ships use ion propulsion powered by matter/ antimatter reaction chambers which have moved ships at speeds of warp 9.6. Faster speeds may be possible but have not be observed yet.
One of the first differences noticed about these craft from many other species is the lack of a main viewscreen. Only the Vorta operative and the Jem'Hadar First have any indication of the outside surroundings. All other officers are restrained to readout controls and tactical displays. The view of the outside is provided by a virtual reality-like headpiece. This headpiece does not react well to Terran pysiology as it gave Captain Sisko headaches with prolonged use. However Cardassians do not appear similarly afflicted. It is unclear what affect the headpiece will have on other Federation member species, or if the affects on Sisko are indicative to all Terrans. The second obvious difference is the lack of seats on the bridge and other control areas. While it is not documented if seating areas exist in other parts of the ship, it is not likely since the Jem'Hadar are not known for their need for recreation or even rest. There are no personal quarters or sleeping chambers; except for maybe that of the Vorta and any other visiting dignitaries the Jem'Hadar may be escorting, but that is another speculation. There are no mess halls since Jem'Hadar soldiers do not need to eat. It is unclear what provisions are made for the Vorta operatives.
Compared to Starfleet vessels, these ships are very spartan and utilitarian. Steel gray walls with exposed conduits apparent along the walls. Bare steel decking, no carpeting along the corridors or rooms. And while these differences exist, they are not unseen before as other races outside of the Federation do similar work in their designs.

Classifications of vessels used by the Jem'Hadar include:
Arakia-class armored transports
Dropel-class light cruisers
Farvugen-class destroyers
Hagan-class scouts
Scarab-class strike fighters
Vosta-class heavy cruisers
-class shuttlecrafts
-class light fighter
-class light fighter
-class transports

Reference: The Search, Improbable Cause, The Die Is Cast, A Call to Arms, Rocks and Shoals, Sacrifice of Angels, What You Leave Behind (many others)
Information provided by:
The Continuum, www.startrek.com, @2002 2006 CBS Studios, Paramount Pictures
The Encyclopedia, www.simonsays.com/st, @1997 Pocket Books, Michael & Denise Okuda, Debbie Mirek
Deep Space Nine Technical Manual, www.simonsays.com/st, @1998 Pocket Books, Michael Okuda, Rick Sternbach, Doug Drexler
LCARS Communications Network, www.lcarscom.net, @2002 Sean Stevenson
Starfleet Academy, www.geocities.com/starfleet_academy_2373, @2000 Kenn Ferguson


