FLEET: Lysian vessels

A fleet of ships built by the Lysian Navy to patrol colonies within that sector of space and to combat their rivals, the Satarran Rebellion. These ships are just that, seagoing vessels that were modified for spacefaring adventures. The first cruisers to even make it into space, called the A-class, were naval ships with rocket booster strapped to them. The ships were sealed to maintain an atmosphere suitable for up to six Earth months of living before the craft would have to splash down into the planet's surface again. When the next wave of starship designs took over the military role, these ships were used for colonizing purposes and the hulls were expected to be used as building material in the new settlements.
Lysian B-class ships began making use of airlocks and other tools that could allow ships to remain in space longer and receive goods and service replacements on a schedule. The outer hulls of these craft were double lined to protect themselves against interstellar debris and other similar dangers that could puncture the craft and damage it and the crew.  The B-class led to the creation of a space station that would now be able to maintain the craft as well as re-supply them and offer crew rotations and leave. These stations would eventually be moved away by thrusters to the neighboring worlds within their system until the Federation gave the government structural integrity fields and defensive screens.
The C-class fleet of ships began the use of the double-hulled design where two starships were literally sandwiched together to protect the operations decks from enemy fire. These two hulls created a central point of reference from which a rotation motor was employed to create artificial gravity. Connecting tubes with rotational sections were used to adjust passengers from one half to the opposite facing orientation of the crew on the other half. These were the ships on hand when Satarran explorers made first contact with friendly Lysian colonies on the system's fifth planet. But when the Lysian Navy arrived, the Satarran vessel was commandeered and its technology, including its warp drive systems, was copied and integrated into the C-class ships. The warp nacelles were cut into the keel of the cruiser's hulls placing each nacelle at the farthest placement of the ship away form the operation decks, and within the heaviest shielding the ships had. These modified ships were the first ships to make contact with the Federation. A new class of station was developed that could maintain the larger needs of a growing fleet.
The D-class fleet of Lysian ships were the first to use energy based weapons. Attempts to add these systems to C-class vessels proved hazardous in the beginning so a new design had to be implemented that would run power conduits in a pattern more similar to Federation standards. Most of the difficulty was due to two hulls providing power and meeting up in the center of the C-class. So the D-class was the first fleet to be completely assembled, from the beginning, in space, and all decks were given the same orientation. New stations were designed with fully functional shipyards in and around them. These newer stations were not usually tactical centers, that job remained with the established Civaq-class stations, but these did become the full production force of their new fleet of ships. At least one station was built in orbit of Lysia's six inner planets and four within the Satarran asteroid field. Additional centers were constructed in the U and T systems.
The E-class of ships is the latest development by Lysian engineers. The separation between the two hulls is much less obvious in many cruisers. Some Starfleet guidance offered in the past, to both the Lysian and Satarran governments, were included in this design like the use of tractor beams, deflector energy screens, structural integrity fields, and artificial gravity. Another new starbase was created too, one that was clearly more powerful and tactically sound than earlier designs. The new stations maintained matter/antimatter reaction cores to power all of their systems. They were equipped with many energy weapons and shielding to resist attacks. While the tactical effectiveness was nothing compared to a Federation starship of the time, it was enough to be more than a match for a small group of Satarran rebels, or a roving pack of Orion pirates.

Classifications of ships built by the Lysians include: 
A-class
Apris-class fighters
Andi-class destroyers
Adavis-class heavy cruisers
Avanti-class medium cruisers
Alys-class light cruisers
B-class
Brect-class carriers
Bonch-class fighters
Bundi-class destroyers
Bepol-class heavy cruisers
Barst-class medium cruisers
Byder-class light cruisers
Binte-class interceptors
Blyt-class stations
C-class
Crooper-class carriers
Canpo-class fighters
Corda-class destroyers
Cybil-class heavy cruisers
Certa-class medium cruisers
Clayst-class light cruisers
Culva-class interceptors
Civaq-class stations
D-class
Dail-class carriers
Dylai-class fighters
Delia-class-destroyers
Dinder-class heavy cruisers
Defrect-class medium cruisers
Drafe-class light cruisers
Dule-class interceptors
Donay-class stations
E-class
Evy-class carriers
Edroo-class fighters
Elba-class destroyers
Etani-class heavy cruisers
Erandi-class medium cruisers
Ecola-class light cruisers
Elias-class interceptors
Epoi-class stations

Reference: Conundrum, Q-Neighbor
Information provided by:
Star Trek Continuum, www.startrek.com, @2002 Paramount Pictures
Star Trek Encyclopedia, www.simonsays.com/st, @1997 Pocket Books
Starfleet Academy, www.geocities.com/starfleet_academy_2373, @2000 Kenn Ferguson


