CLASS: Peregrine
TYPE: transport, interceptor

Small vessel, lightly armed that was known to be used (in modified form) as a Maquis interceptor or Maquis raider. Modification often involved the use of stolen weapons systems attached to the wings and hull of the craft, adding directed energy weapons and torpedo launchers.
Commander Cal Hudson acquired two of these craft for the Maquis to use in an attempted raid on a Cardassian facility oon Bryma. These were the only ships the Maquis had that could be equipped with the heavy weapons. His former best friend, Commander Sisko, was able to prevent the attacks. Maquis raiders feature a cramped cabin for its a crew of two, with the pilot seated to port. The ships are of Federation design. For the Bryma raid, a phaser emitter was located just under the forward nose, and photon torpedoes were fired from a forward tube. Despite its small size, a fuel line could rupture and not be catastrophic. Systems could be easily reconfigured, even under duress. At least part of the power reactor is in impulse generators.
The Founders ruse to lure back Constable Odo began with a faked scenario involving such a ship attacking a Liseppian supply ship. Chakotay's Maquis vessel was of the most common designs. Its engine, at least, is 39 years old (from 2332) and has been rebuilt once. 
In 2370, a small group of such ships were successful at attacking and severely damaging a single Galor-class Cardassian warship, whose captain, Gul Evek, then had to send out a distress signal. 
Another Maquis attack fleet of these small vessels was sent to the Demilitarized Zone for the purpose of attacking a Yridian convoy believed to be assisting the Cardassians against the Maquis. However, the attack was aborted when Lieutenant Ro Laren warned the Maquis that a Starfleet ambush was imminent.

Reference: The Maquis, Heart of Stone, The Caretaker
Information provided by:
The Continuum, www.startrek.com, @2002 2006 CBS Studios, Paramount Pictures
The Encyclopedia, www.simonsays.com/st, @1997 Pocket Books, Michael & Denise Okuda, Debbie Mirek




