CLASS: Sharkelon
TYPE: light cruiser

The largest ship in the Antedean fleet, capable of long missions in very hostile environments. The Federation has often recruited these ships for use in nebula exploration and study since the ships can withstand the atmospheric pressures and their warp systems can be isolated from harm. These ships were especially helpful in the Briar Patch when assisting the Ba'ku set up radiation collectors around their planet.
These vessels feature the typical Antedean design and look like big fish. The teardrop hull is assisted by a birdge module on the dorsal side, a science module on the ventral side, two tactical modules on the port-bow and starboard-bow, and two engineering modules on the port and starboard sides of the craft aft of the nacelles.
The bow of the craft is equipped with the main deflector dish that is three times more powerful than those used on advanced Starfleet ships, even on Sovereign class starships. Since Antedeans are the foremost authority on shield design, they have the best shields on their vessels. The front section of the reserved for tactical control, so it houses the ship's torpedo magazines, phaser coils, and targeting systems. The phaser emitters and torpedo launchers are concealed within the front tactical modules and have an impressive rotary firing mechanism to allow for a large field of aim.
The middle of the ship contains many of the engineering functions; with all command sections and the matter/ anti-matter reaction chamber set deep inside the center of the craft. The auxilliary fusion reactors, fuel tanks and pods, and ship's batteries are also stored in the ship's center. Primary EPS conduits run to the engineering fins on the ships sides where the impulse engines can propel the ship at sublight speeds. The fins also contain all reaction control thrusters.
The ventral science module is the primary research station within the craft, containing a sensor covered hull, science labs, and a dedicated computer core. This section does not contain all the science labs, nor most of the sensor pallets, but is the largest concentration of both. And the ship's main computer cores, along with archive records is safely within the ship's central hull.
The bridge module is mounted on the dorsal side of the craft and has forward facing windows for a direct view. Command offices,, a small galley, transporters, a tight two shuttle hangar, conference room, and a few other amenities fill the space on the ship's top.
Aft on the ship's main hull are the cargo holds and the ship's larger rooms (holodecks, hangars). 

Reference: Genesis Nebula
Information provided by:
Starfleet Academy, www.geocities.com/starfleet_academy_2373, @2000 Kenn Ferguson
