SHIPS: U.S.S. Stargazer
CLASS: Constellation
TYPE: Medium cruiser
REGISTRY: NCC-2893

"TO BRING LIGHT INTO THE DARKNESS"
Federation Starship. The Stargazer was a deep-space exploration vessel, with the mandate to push the boundaries of known space. In 2333, it left Utopia Planitia, under the command of Captain Daithan Ruhalter. When the Nuyyad threatened to invade Federation space, the Stargazer was sent to investigate and stop the threat. To protect themselves from the Nuyyad's vidrion particle cannons, Jomar proposed that the crew of the Stargazer route the warp chamber's plasma flow in a more pure and unadulterated form than before, meaning a deletion of the flow regulator and distribution manifold that the plasma must pass through in favor of a single device that did the work of both of them while facilitating a higher subatomic energy level. Also, the crew installed new graviton relays in the field emitters. The relays were designed to expedite the passage of vidrion particles through the deflector system. A first chance to test the not-quite-finished changes came soon after the Stargazer penetrated the galactic barrier. Nuyyad ships attacked the vessel, leaving Captain Ruhalter dead and Commander Stephen Leach in a coma. That first attack on the Stargazer left six people dead and fourteen injured, while the ship itself was barely able to move at warp speeds, and its defensive systems had been severely damaged. After the colony was liberated, the Magnians helped the Stargazer crew to repair their damaged ship and improved some systems at the same time. When Jomar disobeyed acting captain Jean-Luc Picard's orders and tried to increase the ships's phaser power, he was put under arrest for suspected sabotage. However, when he explained everything to Picard, he was allowed to continue his modifications to give the Stargazer a better chance at defeating the Nuyyad and destroying one of their weapons just beyond the galactic barrier. The ship was damaged in the attack on the depot, her phaser system deactivated, but she managed to destroy the depot with photon torpedoes
Later, the Stargazer was ordered to apprehend the White Wolf in the Beta Barritus system, but penetrating the star's debris shell proved to be tricky. Moving the debris out of the ship's way by tractor beam would have required the ship to go very slowly, and during that time it would be blind, giving the pirate a chance to escape. Instead, Captain Picard suggested to execute a quick subspace jump - a dangerous maneuver that could place the Stargazer in the star itself. Lieutenant Idun Asmund programmed the ship's warp engines to operate for precisely 0.0035 seconds, enabling the ship to easily pass the debris barrier. Soon after, a new problem presented itself: the sensor range was decreasing. Even though the sensors were operating above peak efficiency, Commander Gilaad Ben Zoma asked Chief Engineer Phigus Simenon to try and enhance the sensors even more. When engery vortices endangered the ship, Simenon came up with the idea of changing the shields' polarity, thus making the Stargazer less vulnerable to the action of the vortices. However, the ship encountered too many of the vortices for the shields to prevent them from severely damaging the Stargazer. It suffered hull breaches on eleven different decks, including decks 14, 15 and 16. Sensor range decreased steadily until it was considered too dangerous for the ship to move. Ensign Jiterica came up with a way of gathering data without using the sensors, something for which Lieutenant Juanita Valderrama tried to take credit. Using a probe emitting ultrahigh-frequency radio waves, it was possible to penetrate the hydrogen clouds around the Beta Barritus star via the centuries-old technology of radar. The Stargazer managed to find and attack the pirate ship, using one of Captain Ruhalter's favorite fencing techniques called a stop-thrust. The White Wolf was helpless, but the U.S.S. Cochise came to his defense. However, Picard's tactics managed to blind the Cochise by destroying that ship's radar system. 
After dropping Simenon and the other senior officers participating in the Gnalish Procreation Ritual off on Gnala, the Stargazer was ordered by Admiral Rayfield to help the S.S. Belladonna escape the pull of a sinkhole in the Oneo Madrin system. Some weeks later, Admiral Arlen McAteer ordered the Stargazer to examine an anomaly in the Mara Zenaya system. The Stargazer's crew consisted of 240 people. Captain Picard decided to stagger the schedules of the helm and navigation officers so that the navigator's shift ended two hours after the helm officer's.
In its lone shuttlebay, the ship had at least seven Shuttles, ranging in size up to a size-7 personnel carrier, all of which were destroyed in the crew's successful attempt at defeating the Nuyyad ship in orbit around Magnia. The shuttles were replaced, and a few weeks later the Stargazer had a total of five shuttlepods (one type-11, one type-12 and three type-13), one type-3 personnel shuttle, two type-4 personnel shuttles, a couple of type-5 personnel shuttles and a new type-8 heavy cargo shuttle fresh from the yards at Utopia Planitia. The type-12 shuttlepod often needed a complete overhaul. The ship had at least 26 decks. 
On deck 6 there was the science section. There was a tiny engineering support room on deck 26. The Stargazer's forward tractor beam emitter was essentially a two-meter-long cyclinder that tapped into the electroplasma power grid. As a tractor load could place an enormous amount of stress on the emitter, it was securely tied into the ship's structural integrity field. The ship had at least two transporter rooms. It was equipped with class-IV sensor probes. Replicators on the ship were not the same as those of other Constellation-class explorers, because the Stargazer had been equipped with a more advanced system that had more than 750 preset options, including tuna casserole and salmon steak in béarnaise sauce. The ship's arsenal included 64 phasers of either type 1 or type 2, not including the rifles. The Stargazer's sickbay included a total of twelve biobeds. The captain's ready room was featureless and gray.
An older Federation starship under the command of Jean-Luc Picard from 2333-2355, during which time he won the "Battle of Maxia" with a tactic later studied at the Academy as the "Picard maneuver." Picard was assigned as a lieutenant to bridge duty when the Stargazer's captain was killed and he took command, later rewarded with a permanent captaincy. During a truce mission in Sector 21503 in the 2350s, Cardassian forces severely damaging both the warp engines and the impulse drive. Picard ran with shields down as a sign of peace and escaped. In 2354, Picard took the Stargazer on a mission to the planet Chalna. The Stargazer was believed destroyed near the Maxia Zeta star system; the attacking ship was later identified as Ferengi. After the loss of his ship, Picard was cleared of any wrongdoing in the incident as a result of the mandatory court-martial hearing.
The Stargazer was returned to the Federation by a Ferengi DaiMon who salvaged the ship. He returned it to Captain Picard in an attempt to use the ship to exact revenge upon the captain for killing his son aboard the ship that nearly caused the Stargazer's destruction.

Reference: The Battle, Valiant, Gauntlet, Three, Progenitor
26 decks seems a bit excessive, but maybe walkways in the nacelles count as well. A Star Trek: The Magazine article by Rick Sternbach mentions some specs, including a crew complement of 535 and a deck count of 15 - the latter sounds much more plausible than the 26 decks established in the books.
The Stargazer was designed by Andre Porbert and Rick Sternbach. The miniature was built by Greg Jein. A smaller model of the Stargazer was on display in Captain Picard's ready room aboard the U.S.S. Enterprise-D. The Stargazer bridge was a re-dress of the Enterprise-D battle bridge. The dedication plaque on the Stargazer was devised by episode writer Herb Wright. The Stargazer was originally supposed to be a Constitution-class ship, but when budgetary restraints eventually allowed for a new model to be built, the television scene that mentions the classification had to be dubbed over to state the newly accepted name.
Information provided by:
The Continuum, www.startrek.com, @2002 Paramount Pictures
The Encyclopedia, www.simonsays.com/st, @1997 Pocket Books, Michael & Denise Okuda, Debbie Mirek
Star Trek Novel Encyclopedia Group, www.stneg.org, @2006

