FOOD: Angla'bosque

The very first meal I ever mentioned, after my joining the Voyager crew, was angla'bosque, and I proudly admit, I am known throughout the quadrant for this dish. It's one of Chakotay's favorite stews too. The combination of ingredients is a bit daunting: scree'lash, a fat, fragrant fruit from Ferna for flavor; rinds from Bilikian figs; the beak of a Kalto wood warbler; blood grapes from the twenty-foot-man-eating Vidiian grapevine (without this, no gravy!); a teaspoon of that gorgeous green Aldebaran whiskey; modads, a tomato with see-through skin and seeds that sing; chives from the gardens of the Nechani monks; Vothian thunder leeks (the Voth, dinosaur-like creatures, are renowned leek farmers), Nyrian chicory; the stomach lining from Rianaxian rain worms (optional); Mithren fiddlewax, an Othopian obble plum; lizo belly meat; and finally, bleached Briori beechnuts. Remember the Briori? I do. They were the race that abducted three hundred Terrans in 1937 and brought them to the Delta Quadrant.
On earth, angla'bosque is an easy-to-make vegetable curry, and you can add for texture grapes, chopped figs, and even chopped nuts to the following ingredients if you don't want to throw in a bunch of twigs the way I do in my galley on Voyager. The veggies are rolled into balls held together with chickpea flour and lightly fried in peanut oil. Also, for this dish you will need a medium-to-large sized seasoned wok, a handy utensil that I use in the Voyager galley all the time.
It takes about an hour to make angla'bosque, less time if you break up the tasks by preparing the vegetables ahead of time. The larger the variety of vegetable balls, the more hands you should have on board to help you prepare them. Whatever vegetable you use, the sweet taste of the grapes and figs will blend quite well with the light curry to bring out the taste of the vegetables. You'll need the following ingredients:

2 cups chopped spinach
1 1/2 cups mashed potatoes (instant is okay)
2 cups mashed cooked squash (boiled is best)
1 cup sliced purple grapes (optional)
1 cup sliced figs (optional)
1/4 cup chopped walnuts (optional)
6 tablespoons chickpea flour
1/3 cup water
1/2 teaspoon cayenne pepper
1/2 teaspoon ground cumin
1/2 teaspoon ground ginger
1/2 teaspoon mustard powder
1/2 teaspoon fresh ground black pepper
1/2 teaspoon cinnamon
1/2 teaspoon coriander
1/2 cup peanut oil
1 16-ounce package of curry sauce mix

First, blend all the spices and chickpea flour in a large bowl, adding the water and stirring slowly, until it forms a near-liquid paste. Set aside. Next you will prepare the potato and vegetable balls. In separate bowls, mix 1/3 of the spice paste with the potatoes, the next 1/3 of the paste with the spinach, and the last 1/3 of the spice paste with the squash and roll into 2-inch-diameter balls (approximately the size of cocktail meatballs or falafel balls). If the vegetable and potato balls become too dry, you can add a touch of water, but not too much, to soften them up.
In a seasoned wok, fry the spinach, squash, and potato balls together in oil to coat until they are golden brown. Balls should be nice and crisp. Set them aside to drain while you prepare the curry sauce according to package instructions.
When the curry sauce is finished and is on a low simmer, add the spinach, squash, and potato balls, sprinkle the simmering mixture with coriander, stir, and at this point you can add the optional grapes, figs, and/or walnuts. Simmer for another five minutes. Remove from heat and serve with either jasmine or Darjeeling tea.
Chakotay eats a whole pot of angla'bosque at a single sitting and then has a Kazon for a light lunch. The man's a machine. You, however, not having Kazon or Borg in your future can probably serve guests a good hearty angla'bosque dinner. Chakotay's appetite notwithstanding, this dish serves approximately four.

Reference: Caretaker
Information provided by:
The Continuum, www.startrek.com, @2002 2006 CBS Studios, Paramount Pictures
The Encyclopedia, www.simonsays.com/st, @1997 Pocket Books, Michael & Denise Okuda, Debbie Mirek
The Cookbook, www.simonsays.com/st, @1999 Pocket Books, Ethan Phillips, William J. Birnes
