FOOD: aubergine stew

Sisko offered to cook this dish (pronounced "oh-bear-ZHEEN"), one well-connected with his father's gourmet Creole cafe, for his wife-to-be Jennifer the first night after they met. He must have made it often for Curzon Dax, since Jadzia could recognize it right away. 
Quark had been trying to curry favor with the grand nagus for the longest time before the old Ferengi himself decided to pay a visit to Deep Space 9 to see how Quark was making out. After all, Quark's was the only Ferengi business in close proximity to this most valuable wormhole. Quark, trying to  impress the one person who could have made him his fortune for the rest of his life, served up his famous Augergine stew, which turned out to be a hit. Unfortunately, it was a hit with Jadzia Dax, who scarfed up additional helpings of this stuff because it's so tasty. I've worked up a version of this dish for you, an eggplant-tinted Irish stew with lamb, of course, and an optional mild curry. Why is the stew the color of eggplant? Because aubergine, in French, means eggplant, but it also means the purple color of eggplant. So you can have an eggplant-colored lamb stew with- grape jelly- or a veggie version of this curry stew with sliced and grilled eggplant.
2 -3 pounds lamb roast, cut into bite-sized cubes (preserve the bones for flavor)
2 large carrots, peeled and sliced thick
2 large turnips, peeled and sliced thick
4 medium potatoes, peeled and cubed into large pieces
1 medium onion, sliced
2 quarts water
1/4 cup all-purpose flour
1 - 2 tablespoon grape jelly for color
1 teaspoon thyme
1 teaspoon parsley
1 teaspoon curry powder (optional)
1 whole eggplant (for vegetarian option)
Wash your lamb roast and cut into bite-sized chunks while you boil enough water to cover the lamb bones. Boil the lamb bones for about 1 1/2 hours, skimming off the surface scum. Remove bones, strain water, and return to the soup pot. Add the lamb pieces to cover with an additional 2 quarts of water and heat to a vigorous boil. Cover and reduce to a simmer for 1 1/2 hours. Strain every 20 minutes or so. After 90 minutes add grape jelly for color and simmer for 10 minutes. Next, add the vegetables and seasonings and simmer for 1 more hour. Mix the flour with just enough cold water to form a thick paste, and add it to the stew. Cook for another 30 minutes and serve.
For a vegetarian version, with or without grape jelly, slice very thinly, then sauté in olive oil, a whole eggplant. Or you can broil the sliced eggplant in your broiler. Prepare the other vegetables and seasonings by boiling in 2 quarts of water for 30 minutes. Mix the flour with enough cold water to form a thick paste and add it to the stew. Then, at the very end, add the eggplant and serve in shallow bowls. Serves 4 to 6.

Reference: Emissary, The Nagus
The cookbook spelled this as augergine.
Information provided by:
The Continuum, www.startrek.com, @2002 2006 CBS Studios, Paramount Pictures
The Encyclopedia, www.simonsays.com/st, @1997 Pocket Books, Michael & Denise Okuda, Debbie Mirek
The Cookbook, www.simonsays.com/st, @1999 Pocket Books, Ethan Phillips, William J. Birnes
