FOOD: Azna

A health food that Dax has long sworn by since at least Curzon was its host, preferring it prepared steamed; Jadzia claimed it lengthened a lifespan. 
Neelix- "Azna is Jadzia's favorite dish. She likes this so much, she recommends it to Commander Sisko, claiming it will add years to his life. What is this stuff, magic? Not at all; it's a kind of vegetable stew that Trills regard very highly because it does provide them a kind of longevity. On Earth the closest stew is a simple mixed-vegetable curry with carrots, broccoli, and potatoes in a mild sauce.

2 cups broccoli, chopped in large pieces
1 white potato, cubed
2 carrots, sliced
1 cup whole milk
1/2 cup sour cream or light cream
2 tablespoons sifted all-purpose flour
1 tablespoon coriander
1 teaspoon cumin seed, bruised or cumin powder
1 teaspoon salt
1/2 teaspoon turmeric
2 tablespoons (1/4 stick) butter

Begin by steaming the broccoli on a rack in a saucepan filled with boiling water until the broccoli is tender. You can also use frozen broccoli boiled or microwaved until tender about 2 minutes. Steaming retains more of the vitamins and nutrients. You can boil or microwave potatoes. Boil potatoes with carrots for about 30 minutes or until they are tender. Or microwave the potatoes on high for 10 minutes, check for doneness, and microwave for increments of 5 minutes until they are thoroughly cooked. If you microwave the potatoes, boil or steam the carrots until they are tender. Drain and set aside while you melt the butter in a saucepan and add the flour and milk, stir until completely mixed. Bring this sauce to a boil and quickly reduce to simmer. Simmer until it thickens, and then add all the seasonings and continue to simmer for 1 more minute. Stir in sour cream or light cream and simmer for 2 minutes. Slowly add vegetables. Stir while you simmer about 1 more minute, and then serve. Serves four.

Reference: A Man Alone 
Information provided by:
The Continuum, www.startrek.com, @2002 2006 CBS Studios, Paramount Pictures
The Encyclopedia, www.simonsays.com/st, @1997 Pocket Books, Michael & Denise Okuda, Debbie Mirek
The Cookbook, www.simonsays.com/st, @1999 Pocket Books, Ethan Phillips, William J. Birnes
