FOOD: bacon and eggs

The Terran breakfast dish is known to Quark and is available in the bar; O'Brien says darts and bars go together like bacon and eggs. 

Eggs and Bacon and Corned Beef Hash
Here's the hearty breakfast that the chief likes the most: 2 eggs over easy with 3 pieces of Irish bacon and corned beef hash. I'm not really a big over-easy man myself, preferring my eggs the way the celebrated Earth naval hero Captain Horatio Hornblower prepared them, over well. But Miles like them over easy, with the yolks just ready to burst so they flavor the hash.
There's an easy way to make this and a trickier way, but the trickier way tastes better. Here's the easy way: you buy a can of corned beef hash- and there are plenty of brands- and cut off a nice slice, roughly 1/3 of the can. Start frying yourself a few strips of thick-cut Irish bacon, a cross between Canadian bacon and American bacon, and when you have enough bacon fat, drop a pat of butter in it and fry the corned beef hash too. When the bacon's done, remove the bacon and hash, and fry 2 eggs in the same skillet. Just let them set, then flip them over and let the other side set for about 90 seconds, and then flip them back. Serve the corned beef hash on an English muffin with the eggs right on top and the bacon alongside.
Even better tasting than canned corned beef hash is the stuff you make yourself on the day after St. Patrick's Day.
1 pound cooked or leftover corned beef, chopped
2 cups finely chopped leftover boiled potatoes
2 tablespoons cream, half-and-half, or whole milk
1 teaspoon dried parsley
salt and pepper to taste
Remove all the fat from the corned beef and chop the meat. Peel and then chop the potatoes. Combine the meat and potatoes in a mixing bowl and sprinkle with parsley. Spread the hash on a hot, buttered skillet and stir. Add the cream or milk to moisten, and keep stirring. Just after it begins to brown, push it to one side. Now add the bacon and let the hash brown slowly. When the bacon's done, cook the eggs and proceed as above. For the chief this is a single serving, but it usually serves two.

Reference: Visionary 
Information provided by:
The Continuum, www.startrek.com, @2002 2006 CBS Studios, Paramount Pictures
The Cookbook, www.simonsays.com/st, @1999 Pocket Books, Ethan Phillips, William J. Birnes
