FOOD: Tennessee Smoked Baked Beans

Sitting around the campfire at Earth's Yosemite National Park, Dr. McCoy cooked up his old family Tennessee recipe for smoked baked beans. As McCoy said, smacking his lips the way doctors were wont to do on planet Earth hundreds of years ago, "You can't replicate these, Jim. They have to be simmered low and slow."
Another family secret that "Bones" McCoy could have revealed was that the secret ingredient in Tennessee Smoked Baked Beans was a hefty pour of either whiskey or Kentucky bourbon. Different tastes for different states. If you're serving this dish to your family, however, and are not out in one of the great national parks on Earth, you probably won't want to include the booze- nor should you- but you can add a down-home Smoky Mountain taste with a product called liquid smoke. It's basically water and natural smoke flavor, and there are several brands of it.
You also have to decide whether you want to soak the beans yourself- the basic old-fashioned method- or use one of the many varieties of presoaked, precooked, canned, or ready-to-cook beans. Basically, you can make a baked bean recipe from canned pinto or red beans in about 30 to 45 minutes- making sure you drain and rinse the beans- and these will function as a happy side dish. But the more "from scratch" you prepare your Tennessee Smoked Baked Beans, the richer and fuller the taste. The great part about any baked bean recipe is that there are so many varieties of beans, from scratch to quick-cook, and you have your choice.

Tennessee Smoked Baked Beans

2 cups dried pinto, red, or kidney beans
1/2 pound bacon, salt back, and/or Canadian bacon, coarsely chopped
1 small white onion, or 1/4 large Bermuda onion
2 tablespoons molasses
2 tablespoons honey
1 1/2 tablespoons mustard seed
1/2 cup Tennessee whiskey or Kentucky bourbon
2 cups beef bouillon stock or water from the boiled beans
1 tablespoon Worcestershire sauce
2 teaspoons salt
1 teaspoon liquid smoke

First soak for 2 hours, drain. Then cover with water and boil the beans for about 2 hours, reducing heat to a low boil for the last 1/2 hour, until they are tender. Preheat your oven to 300 degrees. Fry the bacon or slightly brown the salt back. Drain the beans, but reserve the bean stock if you are not going to add beef stock. Add the rest of the ingredients to the beans and pork, add back half the bean stock, and stir thoroughly. Bake for 1 hour at 300 degrees in a heavy covered deep pot, then reduce heat to 200 degrees and bake for another 8 hours, making sure they don't become too dry. For the last half hour, add some of the beef bouillon or bean stock and increase heat to 275 degrees.
Crock-Pot option
This is a great electric Crock-Pot dish. Simply replace the oven with your Crock-Pot, and you can prepare the ingredients the night before, set them up in the Crock-Pot in the morning, and comeback home to fresh baked beans.
Vegetarian option
For vegetarian baked beans, don't use bacon or pork and don't use beef bouillon. You can use finely chopped green peppers or salted fried tofu. You don't need the alcohol, of course. Simply replace it with a tart-apple-cider vinegar. This dish is especially tasty if you make the vinegar yourself from apple cider that you've let turn to vinegar.
Quick-cook option
Simply replace the unsoaked beans with 32 ounces of canned beans. Drain the beans, rinse, then add to the other ingredients and continue. You can slow-bake at 250 degrees for 3 hours or bake at 350 degrees for 1 hour. You can still use a Crock-Pot to let it cook slowly all day, in which case you should follow the instructions on your Crock-Pot.
Coal & Wood Stove & Campfire options
If you prepare the baked beans in a heavy cast-iron pot (no substitutions) grease the pot first and let the baked beans sit on top of the stove where they can cook all day or all night. I'm told that was how the early settlers in something called "the Ancient West" cooked their beans. It's slower than a good low one and a half-second phaser burst, but tastier, I'm sure.

Reference: The Final Frontier
Information provided by:
Star Trek Cookbook, www.simonsays.com/st, @1999 Pocket Books, Ethan Phillips, William J. Birnes
