FOOD: bloodwine

The Klingon "warrior's drink" is also available at Quark's. Kozak had 12 bottles before he passed out. Quark guessed that Worf would order it during their first visit to the bar -- but he ordered prune juice -- a real warrior's drink. Drex didn't want his bloodwine cold. Dax joins Kor for hours of drinking when the old warrior returned to DS9 for his quests. 
Klingon bloodwine is exactly what it says it is: fermented blood and sugar. To make an excellent re-creation of Klingon bloodwine, you can use straight up "Just Cranberry" from Knudsen sweetened to your own taste with Welch's pure dark grape juice. If you want to lighten the color of the cranberry juice just a bit, use Welch's white grape juice. Want it to have some nice floating red corpuscles? Run fresh or frozen cranberries or red raspberries through your blender and add them to your juice. That makes it fresh and sweet, the way Worf drinks it.

Reference: A Matter of Honor, Blood Oath, The House of Quark, Sacrifice of Angels
Really simple to make on the set and at home. You use a very dark grape juice or cranberry juice, but you use a food processor, maybe a blender, or, even better, a juicer like a Juiceman and fresh cranberries. Then you use the juice and the cranberry residue- it looks like bloody organic tissue, very clotty, and you can even put some red Jell-O in there to make it seem like it's clotting up even more. Again, for people who can't drink sugar beverages, use straight-up cranberry juice, the blender mash of cranberries, and sugar-free strawberry, raspberry, grape, or cherry Jell-O that's just beginning to congeal.
Information provided by:
The Continuum, www.startrek.com, @2002 2006 CBS Studios, Paramount Pictures
The Encyclopedia, www.simonsays.com/st, @1997 Pocket Books, Michael & Denise Okuda, Debbie Mirek
The Cookbook, www.simonsays.com/st, @1999 Pocket Books, Ethan Phillips, William J. Birnes
Star Trek in Sound & Vision, www.stinsv.com, @2003 Dave & Richard
