FOOD: Breakfast Croissant

Each morning at breakfast with his old friend- and, it turned out when they were in telepathic communication, romantic confidante- ship's surgeon Dr. Beverly Crusher, the captain enjoyed his cup of Earl Grey tea and his breakfast croissant, or as we Talaxians like to call it, buttered crescent. You can buy your packaged or refrigerated ready-to-bake croissants at any supermarket, of course, and with a pit of fresh-brewed Earl Grey tea, get up in time to watch the sun rise and say to yourself between bites and sips, "It's morning on the Enterprise," thus enjoying what the captain and the Doctor enjoy at the beginning of each day in the Alpha Quadrant.
Here's a quick trick to replace the elegant croissant with handy crescent rolls from the market. After you've popped open the refrigerator can, unroll the crescent rolls and spread a pat of butter on the inside. That way, it will bake in its own butter in your oven or toaster oven. You can also add any types of jellies, jams, spreads, prior to cooking, but if you do, you should spread a sheet of aluminum foil over your baking pan so the jelly doesn't stick and making the baking pan impossible to clean. But whether you bake your own refrigerated crescent rolls or use the packaged croissants, do what I do and always serve them piping hot from your galley oven.
You can microwave refrigerated store-bought croissants of course, but you'll have to be careful because if you over-microwave them, they'll get very hard and brittle. So instead of just popping them into the microwave, you should splash a little water on them to keep them moist and then wrap them each in a paper towel. Microwave for no more than 15 seconds, open the towel to see if they're hot enough, and then replace for another 5 to 8 seconds if they're not to your liking. But in no event should you microwave for more than 30 seconds because you'll overcook the croissant.
Different microwaves heat food differently, too, so you'll have to experiment. Once you get the setting that works for you, you can begin spreading a little butter prior to baking for a creamy fresh taste. It's probably not a good idea to microwave jellies or jams in your croissant, so warm them separately in your oven prior to serving. The trick is to serve everything, including the jellies and spreads, hot or warm, to start off the day just like Picard and Crusher used to in those heady days on the Enterprise-D.

Reference:
Information provided by:
Star Trek Cookbook, www.simonsays.com/st, @1999 Pocket Books, Ethan Phillips, William J. Birnes
