FOOD: Bregit lung

A Klingon dish Riker enjoyed during his meal aboard the I.K.S. Pagh. 
Riker said in his personal log that his most favorite dish aboard the Pagh was bregit lung, among the many foods that mark the test of a true Klingon. Lung, claw, heart, and entrails mark the food of the warrior, Riker learned, as the internalization of the fighting soul of the wild beast. To breathe the air of battle, to feel the scent of blood rise around you until it makes your own blood boil- these are the sensations of the warrior in battle rather than step down from the challenege. The food that inspired him to his moment he said, was hearty, almost overpowering bregit lung.
Unless you're a Klingon, you'll have to replace the lungs with tripe because lungs have been declared inedible by the United States Department of Agriculture. In fact, at meat packing plants, animal lungs are rendered unusable by a denaturing process, so even if you are able to buy lungs to make bregit lung, they're probably unsafe to eat.

3 pounds beef tripe
1 cup sour cream
1/2 cup sifted all-purpose flour
1/2 cup (1 stick) salted butter
1 small Spanish onion, chopped very fine
4 or 5 beef bouillon cubes or envelopes 
1 1/2 cups of boiling water
2 teaspoons paprika or cayenne pepper
1 teaspoon sugar
1 bay leaf
1 tablespoon black caviar
1/2 teaspoon thyme
salt and pepper to taste

Begin by cutting the tripe into 2-inch strips which you will wash, boil, and simmer in the beef stock, made from the boiling water and 2 or 3 of the bouillon servings, for about 30 to 45 minutes until they become nice and tender. Remove the tripe from the stock and set aside. Crumble your bay leaf and thyme into a powdered mixture and add to the stock along with the 2 additional bouillon servings. While the stock is simmering, heat the butter, sugar, and flour in a skillet until the mixture thickens, and then add the chopped onion, stirring until it becomes transparent. Reduce heat and pour the stock through a cheesecloth or strainer into the skillet and stir as it thickens. Now preheat your oven to 325 degrees.
Put the strips of tripe into a large casserole dish and cover them with the thickened stock. Cover the dish and bake for 30 minutes, then add salt and pepper to taste, add the sour cream and the caviar. Bake for another 15 minutes and serve with a heavy red wine such as "Bull's Blood"; a dark full-bodied German beer, or a pint of British bitter, ale, or stout which can easily pass for Klingon ale. Serves six to eight.

Reference: A Matter of Honor 
Information provided by:
The Continuum, www.startrek.com, @2002 2006 CBS Studios, Paramount Pictures
The Encyclopedia, www.simonsays.com/st, @1997 Pocket Books, Michael & Denise Okuda, Debbie Mirek
The Cookbook, www.simonsays.com/st, @1999 Pocket Books, Ethan Phillips, William J. Birnes
