FOOD: Brioche

It's been said that when Marie Antoinette, the tyrannical queen of France, supposedly blurted out, "Let them eat cake," one of the most politically incorrect events in human history, she really said, "Let them eat brioche," but somebody probably misquoted her. Were you to taste the brioche that I make from Captain Picard's traditional family recipe, you'd be so transported by the heavenly taste that you'd probably agree with me that had Marie Antoinette been quoted properly, the French would have never revolted, the guillotine blade would never have fallen, Napoleon would never have risen, the vast Picard vineyards would still have been in the hands of some lazy aristocrat, and little Jean-Luc might have never been inspired to apply to Starfleet Academy. What might have happened to humanity then, I ask, when Q challenged the very raison d'etre of the human species in his mock trial to a defender not up to the diplomatic skills of Captain Jean-Luc Picard. If Seven is to be believed, you all would have been assimilated by the Borg.
Here are the ingredients you should arrange on your preparation table for my special, special, albeit tricky, breakfast brioche. Actually, you have to prepare the brioche the night before because the dough takes 12 hours to rise. Once the dough has risen, the actual baking and preparation time is only about 30 minutes. This is actually a fun recipe, because it's a real eighteenth-century recipe updated.

1 package active dry yeast
5 egg yolks
3 eggs
4 cups sifted all-purpose flour
3/4 cup softened butter
1/4 cup melted butter
1/2 cup milk
1/4 cup sugar
1/4 cup hot water
1 tablespoon half-and-half
1 teaspoon sugar
1 teaspoon honey
1/ teaspoon salt

Preheat your oven to its lowest setting, no higher than 100 degrees. Soften the active yeast in the hot water and let stand for about 10 minutes. While the yeast is standing, scald- simmer in a small saucepan until a thin skin just appears on top- the milk. As your oven is warming, your milk is heating, and your yeast is standing, combine the softened butter, 1/4 cup sugar, and salt in a small bowl, and then pour the scalded milk into the mixture. Let cool and then stir. Your milk and butter mixture should be lukewarm. Now stir in 1/2 cup of flour; then stir the softened yeast, add it to the mix and begin beating the whole thing with a large spoon. This is the part that Klingons like best.
As you beat, slowly add an additional 1 1/2 cups flour; then 1 at a time, beat in 3 eggs. Continue beating with the spoon and add, again, 1 at a time, beating through each time you add, 4 egg yolks. (You separate the yolk from the white by cracking the eggshell in two and spilling the white into a bowl while retaining the yolk in the shell.)
Beat the mixture until you've formed a soft dough. Then add an additional 2 cups of flour and continue to beat for at least another 5 minutes. Set. The dough will rise in, so it has to be at least twice the size of your original mixing bowl. Spoon your dough into the larger bowl, brush with melted butter, cover with waxed paper, foil, and a towel, and set aside in a warm place or an oven set to "warm." Check the dough every 10 minutes or so, and when it's doubled in size, remove coverings, and punch it down- another Klingon favorite- to make it denser. Butter the surface, reserve unused portion, cover it again and set it in your refrigerator to rise for at least 12 hours. You can occasionally punch it down again during the night to make it a bit denser, but you don't have to be obsessive.
After about 12 hours, the dough should be risen and ready. Preheat your oven, or your toaster oven if you're going to knock these off right at the table, again to "warm," no more than 100 degrees. Remove dough from refrigerator, lightly flour either a cutting board or a baking sheet, and use reserved melted butter to lightly coat the inside cups of a muffin pan. Brioche, traditionally, is made up of a top and a bottom half. The bottom half is simply muffin-shaped. But the top- the top is where the real fun begins, because you get to make little brioche hats to delights and tantalize your friends and family.
After you've removed your dough from the refrigerator, coated your baking sheet with flour, and pre-heated your oven, place the entire wad on the floured board or baking sheet and pull off about 2/3 of the ball. Set the remaining 1/3 aside for the time being. Roll the 2/3 into small but lightly packed balls, about the size of cocktail meatballs or Swedish meatballs. Someday, if we ever travel back again to twentieth-century Earth, I have to make a stopover in Sweden- I'll take Seven with me for protection- to see what the Swedes are like and why they make those little meatballs that have become so famous throughout the galaxy.
Take the little dough balls and drop them into the wells of the muffin pan. Now its time to make the tops. Traditionally, I'm told, because brioche is such a noble pastry, the tops are supposed to be crowns. Yuo shape these by rolling the remaining 1/3 of the dough into an equal number of little balls to match those in the muffin tin. I supposed you could have more tops, but they'd spread out on the baking sheet, and it would all be a big formless nebula-like mess. Once you've formed the balls, shape them into cones, which you then insert into the tops of the muffin-tin dough. These can be either dunce caps or crowns But you can also get a little creative here and form starships or runabout tops, the headpieces worm by Bajoran vedeks, or just about any shape you can think of that doesn't require the services of an architect or a computer equipped with a positronic brain imaging system.
Now cover the entire muffin pan with a linen towel- or a sheet- and set in your warming oven to rise. When the dough has doubled in size- this is why a toaster oven is not a good idea- remove from oven. Preheat oven to 425 degrees, brush each of the brioches with a mixture of one egg yolk, a teaspoon of sugar, and a tablespoon of half-and-half, which will form a nice crust, and bake for 15 to 20 minutes. You can also replace the sugar with a teaspoon of warmed honey to eliminate the sweetener completely. Serve nice and hot with Earl Grey tea, raktajino, or macchiato. This makes from 12 to 16 brioches.
For brioche any time of the day or night with no muss or fuss, bake a whole bunch of these goodies and freeze what you don't use, making sure you wrap them tightly for your freezer. When you want a nice brioche, remove one from the freezer, moisten with a few drops of water, wrap loosely with a paper towel, and microwave on high for 20 seconds, check for warmth, and microwave on high again, still covered for no more than 10 seconds. In 30 seconds you'll have a hot brioche for breakfast. If you have a microwave at the office or don't mind room-temperature brioches, you can drop a couple of these frozen brioches into your lunchbag and, because they will have defrosted by the time you get to work or school, heat them up in a microwave for 10 seconds or just eat them out of the wrapper.

Reference:
Information provided by:
Star Trek Cookbook, www.simonsays.com/st, @1999 Pocket Books, Ethan Phillips, William J. Birnes
