FOOD: Cellular Peptide Cake with Mint Frosting

Do androids dream of peptide cake? Dataa did as the Enterprise and its crew were being consumed by dangerous interphasic organisms that threatened to destroy them all. In Data's nightmare of destruction, he hosted a get-together in which the beautiful Troi was peacefully laid out, not like night spread against the sky, but like a tempting cake with tangy peppermint frosting. While cellular peptides are not common pantry staples in most people's kitchens, you can have some fun by baking your own sponge cake in jigsaw-puzzle shapes to resemble the torso of someone you love. Those of you with scanners or digital cameras who know how to use PhotoShop, Illustrator, or any other photographic software can print your subject's photo onto an iron-on transfer that you can use to decorate a pillowcase or even a T-shirt. You can then wrap it around a basketball or football to make the head and face for your "torso cake." What a birthday cake!
Here's the recipe for one sponge cake with enough chocolate mint frosting to cover it. Measure how many cakes you will need to re-create the torso of your subject and adjust the recipe accordingly.

CAKE:
10 eggs yolks
1 2/3 cup sifted cake flour
1 cup sugar
1/2 hot water
1 teaspoon baking powder
1 teaspoon lemon extract
1/2 teaspoon salt

FROSTING:
2 egg whites
1 1/2 cups sugar
5 tablespoon water
1 1/2 teaspoons light corn syrup
3 ounces unsweetened chocolate, melted
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
1/4 teaspoon peppermint extract
food coloring

Preheat your oven to 375 degrees. Sift together flour, baking powder, and salt. Beat egg yolks until slightly thickened. You can use either a hand beater or your electric mixer set on low. Add the lemon extract to the egg yolks while mixing and then slowly add the sugar. After mixture is completely blended, add hot water, fold in the flour combination and continue to blend. Grease small sheet-cake pans and loaf pans as needed to form the puzzle torso pieces- remember your not doing legs- pour the batter in, pans filled just over halfway and bake for 40 minutes at 375 degrees, testing for doneness after 35 minutes. When done, turn pans upside down on a wire rack and let cake pieces cool. Repeat entire recipe as necessary to complete the torso puzzle.
While your cake is cooling and you've begun to assemble the number of pieces you'll need, you should make the frosting. You can only frost the cake once it's cool and fully assembled, so there are no seams. Begin by combining the egg whites, sugar, water, melted chocolate, and corn syrup in a mixing bowl, and beat with your electric mixer on low until completely mixed. Heat in a small saucepan or on top of a double boiler, beating constantly, for 7 minutes. Test for doneness by trying to shape the frosting in the saucepan into little peaks or ridges. If it holds its shape, it's done. Remove from heat and add vanilla and peppermint extracts and continue to mix until it's thick enough to spread. Prepare enough to cover all the sponge cake and fill in all the seams. The frosting needs to go between the cake pieces to act as the glue to hold them together. You may wish to separate some of the frosting into smaller bowls that can have food coloring added to them for colored frosting.
Arrange your torso pieces and frost. Now you can decorate your cake with packaged white and red buttercream icing or frosting to create clothing, a Starfleet uniform, shirt or blouse, a tie, buttons, or a scarf. When it's done, it's time for the face.
In order to make the face, you should either have taken a digital photo of the person to be portrayed or have acquired the photo digitally- that's get a photo, and make a scan of it, using either PhotoShop or another graphics program. You should follow the program's instructions to create an image of the person onto a disk you can use to print at an output shop, like a Kinko's, or with your own color printer. You will print the image onto an iron-on transfer, special paper that transfers the image to a cloth. Once the image has been printed onto the transfer, follow the instructions for your iron and impress the image onto a plain cloth, T-shirt, or pillowcase. Let the image set. Also many photo processing stores will do the same process from a print or negative.
Now wrap the cloth, T-shirt, or pillowcase around a basketball or football- you can use a balloon, but I don't recommend it because you apply a knife to the cake end, and you know what, your subject sits their looking at his collapsed head- and set it at the head of the torso. Your cake is ready to serve to the surprise of absolutely everyone who sees it. Be sure to take a photo or video because this is something you're going to want to keep forever.

Reference:
One of the funniest challenges we had on the set of Next Generation was Data's dream segment wherein Deanna Troi was rolled out as a cake to be carved up and eaten. The irony about this shot and the special effects we had to use with the food is that Patrick Stewart, who directed the episode, didn't realize just how small the human torso is on a two-dimensional plane, especially Marina's. In proportion to the rest of a body, the torso is only a small area, but it looks bigger because of shoulders, neck, waist, and thighs. But when you just have a torso and nothing else, it's pretty small and makes for a weak visual. Marina Sirtis has a petite figure, so her torso is even smaller than that of someone who has a larger figure. So how to make her look like a cake?
I [Alan Sims] ordered a sheet cake, kind of a single-layer cake, from the bakery, in proportion to Marina's torso. And when we rolled her into the scene, she looked just like a square cupcake with a head sticking out. Patrick was completely dissatisfied with the look because the cake was so small. He wanted a bigger presentation for the camera- more torso cake. More cake means more cake, so we had to call all around to get more cake. Soon drivers were delivering sheet cakes to the set, and we expanded Troi's torso with a larger cake and a uniform made completely of buttercream icing. I had to run out to stores and get even more cake. But Patrick, setting up the shot from all angles, still felt the torso wasn't impressive enough. So we got more cake, because everything we did on camera looked like a dinky little thing. This was a dream sequence, not real life, so the torso had to be really oversized. Finally we got as much sponge cake as was in the entire Hollywood area and just piled it on. Then we re-iced the entire cake, taking special care to fill in all those jigsaw-puzzle seams where sponge cake met yellow cake met chocolate cake.
Marina had to lie there on what was really a magician's table with her whole body slung flat on a platform below the tray where the cake was sitting. That's what gave her what we called the "platter look." It was a really complicated arrangement because her head couldn't be straight up, but she couldn't be on the same level as the table or else she would look like a person covered in icing. She had to look like a head coming out of a cake that was really a Starfleet uniform. It was a totally constructed gag. That's the secret of how we did that shot of the Troi cake.
Information provided by:
Star Trek Cookbook, www.simonsays.com/st, @1999 Pocket Books, Ethan Phillips, William J. Birnes
