FOOD: Chicken Soup

After Dr. Crusher returned to the Enterprise following her one-year posting at Starfleet Medical, she learned that her replacement, Dr. Katherine Pulaski, also had a cure-all that didn't involve the latest genetically engineered drugs. Beverly Crusher quickly adapted her own recipe for what came to be known as Dr. Pulaski's Chicken Soup. Beverly added those wonderful little spheroid delights Worf's adoptive father Chief Rozhenko calls "knaidlach." It sometimes inspires him to elicit music from a primitive device he calls a "guitar."

2 to 3 pounds whole chicken, washed and quartered
2 onions, sliced
5 carrots, sliced
3 medium-sized tomatoes, sliced
10 celery stalks, sliced (reserve the celery leaves for the knaidlach)
chicken bouillon cubes or packages an necessary to enhance flavor
16 ounces matzoh-balls
salt and pepper to taste

knaidlach
1 teaspoon chopped celery leaves
1 tablespoon chopped parsley
1/4 cup minced fresh onion
1 tablespoon chopped garlic

OR 
Bubbue Kat'z Hester Street Knaidlach
1 cup packaged matzoh meal
2 eggs
2 tablespoon vegetable oil or chicken fat
1/2 cup chicken soup, bouillon, or stock

First prepare either your homemade version or the packaged version of matzoh balls because the knaidlach mixture has to sit in the refrigerator for at least a 1/2 to set up. Then you'll cook them in the stock and set aside again until just before serving time, when you plop them back into the soup.
If you use a store bought package, simply follow the package instructions. These entail mixing vegetable oil and two eggs with the matzoh meal, salting it if you like, then setting the mixture aside in your fridge. You can then heat some chicken bouillon to a boil, the the mix out of the refrigerator, roll the mixture into fluffy little balls, and drop them in the boiling bouillon. Make sure you odn't pack the mittle matzoh balls to densely or they'll never cook. When the balls float up to the surface and bob there for a while, they're done. Set aside to cool until your soup is ready. Then cook in the chicken soup for at least 10 minutes before serving.
To make the Kat'z knaidlach recipe, you should belnd the eggs and chicken fat or vegetable oil in a medium-sized bowl until the mixture is nice and thick. Pour the chicken soup, bouillon, or stock into the mixture, stir, and then blend in the matzoh meal. If the mixture is too stiff, add just a little bit of oil or Naya fat. Then set the mixture aside in your refrigerator for 30 minutes while you prepare the chicken soup. After 30 minutes, remove the dumpling dough from the refrigerator, form it into little fluffy balls, and drop them into boiling soup or bouillon. When the balls float to the surface, they're done. Set aside until your soup is done, and add them for the final 10 minutes of cooking time.
To make the soup itself, you'll need a very large soup pot, half-filled with cold water. Set the heat to high and cover the pot while you clean the chicken. You can buy quartered chicken pr chicken parts. Washing your chicken is a very important process because of the risk of bacteria and contaminants, and you should do it very carefully. Put the chicken pieces into the boiling water and reduce heat. The chicken will cook slowly at a low boil, and simmer it in your covered soup pot for about 2 hours, during which time you should occasionally skim fat and solids from the surface of the boiling water.
After 2 hours, remove the chicken and test it for doneness. The meat should be white and soft. Set it aside. Strain the broth to remove fat and scum and return it to the pot. Let the broth cook for about 1 hour, during which time more fat will rise to the surface. Skim off some of the fat or all of the fat, depending upon how fatty you want the soup to be. If the flavor is too mild you can also add some bouillon to the water. Then return it to the heat and add the vegetables and cook for about 90 minutes. When the tomatoes have dissolved and the carrots are soft, season with the salt and pepper, add the chicken pack in, and cook for 30 minutes. Finally, add the matzoh balls and cook for another 10 minutes, correct the seasoning, and serve.
I suggest you remove the chicken from the soup pot before serving. You should also try to keep the chicken in large pieces and remove the skin and bones. Add it in individual serving bowls along with the matzoh balls. The fun part of the presentation is to make sure that everyone has the same number of matzoh balls and carrots. Individual pieces of chicken for each serving will, naturally, vary according to taste. Some people will want huge chunks of chicken and others will want barely any. I suggest you serve your soup with dark, dark rye bread and Welch's white grape juice cut half-and-half with sparkling water or club soda and topped with a lemon. Serves approximately eight to ten.
If you have at least 2 cups of leftover chicken, rather than serving it as soup meat for the next night, you should shred it, add to it 3 chopped celery stalks and one chopped onion, some salt, and enough mayonnaise to make a nice chicken salad to accompany the soup for lunch or for the following night's dinner. Serve the chicken salad on rye bread or the egg bread challah, which you can make in your automatic bread maker.

Reference:
Information provided by:
Star Trek Cookbook, www.simonsays.com/st, @1999 Pocket Books, Ethan Phillips, William J. Birnes

