FOOD: Chicken a la Sisko

A dish Jake Sisko prepared for his mirror-universe mother. 
Neelix- "The commander likes to prepare this one-dish chicken-in-the-pot meal with Cajun spices and rice. The rice can be plain, or made with some of the rosemary, gumbo file', bay leaf, and tomato juice you are cooking in the chicken pot. This makes a great diner for four to six or even eight, if they eat like Kes did, but it also works when you're flying solo and want the leftovers for lunch the next day, especially if you can brown-bag it to the office in a microwavable container that you can nuke and take back to your desk with a mug of Chiraltan tea with a cinnamon stick, Bajoran style.

1 frying chicken, quartered, with legs and wings separated
2 large red-skinned potatoes, chopped
4 carrots, cubed or thickly sliced
2 medium onions, thinly sliced
3 large tomatoes, quartered
2 celery stalks and 1 handful celery leaves, chopped
1 green bell pepper, sliced
1/2 cup (1 stick) butter
1/4 cup olive oil
2 cloves garlic, sliced
1 bay leaf
1 teaspoon gumbo file'
1 teaspoon rosemary
1 teaspoon thyme
1 teaspoon parsley
1 teaspoon red cayenne pepper
1 teaspoon Tabasco sauce
1 to 2 cups rice, depending upon the number of servings
(1 cup uncooked rice equals 4 servings)
2 to 4 cups water (twice as much water as rice)
1 or 2 bouillon cubes (one cube per cup of rice)

Begin preparing the chicken by quartering, separating legs and wings, and rinsing away blood and organ parts thoroughly. Then, in a large stew pot like a Le Creuset, brown chicken slowly in a 1/2 stick of butter and a touch of olive oil. You will brown the chicken for at least a 1/2 hour before adding any other ingredients.
In a separate pot, brown the garlic in the rest of the olive oil and a 1/2 stick of butter. Then add the carrots and potatoes and cook for 15 minutes. Next add the onions and green pepper, brown them, and add the tomatoes, bay leaf, and celery. Cook for another 1/2 hour. Add a few tablespoons of water to the chicken and add all of the remaining seasonings. When the vegetables have cooked for a 1/2 hour, add them to the chicken and cook for at least 2 hours over low heat. Keep checking the chicken and vegetables for tenderness and doneness, particularly the carrots and potatoes. The dish is ready when the chicken is nice and white and cooked completely through and the carrots and potatoes are nice and soft. The tomatoes will dissolve into a very mild and chunky sauce, with bits of skin for color.
During the last 30 to 40 minutes, prepare the rice with chicken bouillon cubes added to the water. After the rice has started to boil, add a bit of the vegetable mixture and some of the tomatoes for color and taste. You may also use garlic salt instead of regular salt for a little more flavor. When the rice and chicken are done, serve by spooning chicken and vegetables over rice and topping with a sprig of parsley or even watercress. You'd be surprised how good this tastes accompanied by a hot, steaming mug of Chiraltan tea, especially laced with lots of Bajoran spices, and a chunk of greenbread slathered in Rigelian yak butter. Serves four to six.

Reference: Shattered Mirror 
Information provided by:
The Continuum, www.startrek.com, @2002 2006 CBS Studios, Paramount Pictures
The Encyclopedia, www.simonsays.com/st, @1997 Pocket Books, Michael & Denise Okuda, Debbie Mirek
The Cookbook, www.simonsays.com/st, @1999 Pocket Books, Ethan Phillips, William J. Birnes
