FOOD: Chocolate cake

Earth confection typically made from chocolate, eggs, flour and sugar and often served for dessert. Other ingredients allow for a splendid variety of tastes and textures.
In Ten-Forward, Guinan knew Troi was deep in thought when she saw the counselor hadn't touched her chocolate cake. 

2 cups sifted cake flour
1 teaspoon baking soda
2 eggs
1 teaspoon salt
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
1 1/4 ups sugar
1 cup sour cream
1/3 cup shortening
1/3 cup boiling water
3 ounces unsweetened chocolate, melted

Preheat oven to 350 degrees. In a small bowl stir the melted chocolate into the boiling water until your chocolate mixture is nice and thick. Add vanilla and set aside to cool. In another bowl combine flour, baking soda, sugar, and salt. Add sour cream and shortening, and beat for 2 minutes with an electric hand mixer on low until your batter is creamy. Add the eggs and the chocolate mixture to your batter, and beat for another 2 minutes. Grease and flour 2 8-inch layer  cake pans, pour in your batter, and bake for 35 to 40 minutes. Test the top of each layer for springiness to the touch after 30 minutes. If the cake springs back to the touch, remove from oven and let cool. After your cake is done baking, let it cool for 10 minutes before removing from cake pans; then place the layers on a wire baking rack to let them cool further. Frost the cake only when it's completely cool, and serve.

Chocolate Cake with Raspberries
When you think of Troi, you think of not only her beauty, not only the difficulty of her job as a counselor who could feel the emotional pain of others, you think of- chocolate. That's right, chocolate. The woman was a card-carrying chocoholic who couldn't make a move without a hit from the old bar of Swiss, dark, semisweet, mit crunchies or mit out crunchies. Want to make her happy? Bake her a chocolate cake. So here's Deanna Troi's favorite ship's counselor's chocolate cake with raspberries- chocolat au framboise.

3 ounces cream cheese
2 tablespoons whole milk
1/4 cup red raspberries
1 tablespoon water
1/4 cup sugar
OR raspberries in light syrup instead of sugar, water, and fresh berries
2 1/2 cup confectioners' sugar
2 ounces unsweetened chocolate, melted
pinch of salt

Prepare a chocolate cake per the above instructions. While your cake is baking, soften the raspberries by soaking them in the water with the granulated sugar, or use raspberries in light syrup. In a small mixing bowl soften your cream cheese by mixing in 1 or 2 tablespoons of whole milk, adding the milk a little at a time. Once the mixture is softened, add your confectioners' sugar as you blend them with a spoon. Now add the melted chocolate and your raspberries. Beat on low with your electric mixer until smooth and creamy. Add just a pinch of salt and keep beating for 1 minute. Now set aside in your refrigerator. Spread onto a chocolate cake after the cake has cooled completely.

Reference: Imaginary Friend 
Information provided by:
The Continuum, www.startrek.com, @2002 2006 CBS Studios, Paramount Pictures
The Encyclopedia, www.simonsays.com/st, @1997 Pocket Books, Michael & Denise Okuda, Debbie Mirek
The Cookbook, www.simonsays.com/st, @1999 Pocket Books, Ethan Phillips, William J. Birnes
