FOOD: Creole shrimp with Mandalay Sauce

A recipe among the favorites of Sisko's dad that the then-commander prepared for the first dinner with Jake's girlfriend Marta. 
A regional preparation of the Terran sea creature on the menu at Sisko's in New Orleans, and one of Ben Sisko's best dishes. 
Neelix- "Just what is a "Creole" anyway? Is it like jambalaya, gumbo, or even a bayou bouillabaisse? I researched this long and hard after I came across the menus from Sisko's and discovered that a "Shrimp Creole" is, basically, shrimp in a tomato sauce itself has what twentieth-century Louisiana natives referred to as the "holy trinity" of ingredients, Creole tomatoes, celery, and bell peppers. You have to saute these in garlic and oil, mix in some hot sauces like tabasco, add a pinch of sugar to cut the sour taste of the tomatoes, and simmer for 20 minutes. While your doing this, peel and boil shrimp and add to the mixture to cook for another 20 minutes. You can also add 1/2 cup of the shrimp stock- the shrimp-boiling water that has in it onions, celery leaves, garlic, bay leaf, and pepper- to the Creole sauce and simmer for another 10 minutes. The sauce is done in under 1 hour and can be served over rice.
Joe Sisko's recipe is a version of this, a good old-fashioned shrimp or crab boil with a hearty tomato, celery, and bell pepper sauce served over rice. It was one of Joe Sisko's favorite dishes and a favorite of his son, Benjamin, and his grandson, Jake. You can start by boiling your shrimp in beer with a mixture of bay leaves, pickling spices, and cloves. You can use any size shrimp; however, I recommend large because it allows you to slice them any way you want. Use the jumbos you can ride for barbecuing. Save the shrimp boil with beer and spices for the Mandalay sauce which is, itself, a base for jambalaya or gumbo.

3 pounds medium to large shrimp, peeled
4 quarts water
16 ounces beer
1 teaspoon cloves
1 teaspoon shredded bay leaves or 2 teaspoons Old Bay seasoning
1 teaspoon pickling spice or 1 1/2 tablespoons crab boil seasoning
6 tomatoes, chopped
8 ounces whole canned tomatoes in juice
6 ounces tomato paste
2 medium onions, chopped
1 large green or red bell pepper, chopped
5 stalks celery with leaves, chopped
8 cloves garlic, sliced
1/4 cup olive oil
1 tablespoon butter
2 additional bay leaves or 2 tablespoons Old Bay seasoning
1 handful peppercorns
1 handful cumin seeds, bruised
1 additional teaspoon pickling spice
1 teaspoon rosemary
1 teaspoon cayenne pepper
1 teaspoon Tabasco sauce
2 cups uncooked rice

Begin by peeling then boiling your shrimp in a mix of 4 quarts water with 8 ounces beer to which you've added the cloves, bay leaves, pickling spice mixture or Old Bay or crab boil. While the shrimp are boiling- and they only have to turn from gray to a nice pinkish red- prepare your deep skillet by simmering the garlic in the olive oil, adding peppers and onions, and then the butter. What you'll have it a sizzling olive oil and butter sauce with garlic, bell peppers, and onions. You can actually stop here is you want to pour this over the shrimp for shrimp Cajun style. However, if you would like to prepare the Mandalay sauce, you must continue.
After the garlic, peppers, and onions have combined, add the shrimp to the skillet and stir through. Next add all the tomatoes, the canned tomatoes, 1/2 cup of the strained shrimp boil, and the tomato paste, and simmer on low for at least 20 minutes. When the tomatoes have begun to dissolve, add the rest of the seasonings and simmer for 1 hour to let all the flavors combine. If it still tastes a bit too harsh, simmer for another 1/2 hour. This is not a quick meal.
After your spices and tomatoes have begun to combine, draw off about 1/2 cup of liquid for the rice and set aside. You will need an additional 2 1/2 cups water and 8 ounces of beer to cook the rice. During the last 1/2 hour of cooking your shrimp in Mandalay sauce, prepare the rice using the Mandalay sauce liquid you've set aside. You can serve 4 hearty portions of 8 regular portions. You can also serve 1 disgustingly intense portion stretched over any number of hours. Once you start gorging on this, resistance... You get the picture.

Reference: The Abandoned, Homefront
Information provided by:
The Continuum, www.startrek.com, @2002 2006 CBS Studios, Paramount Pictures
The Encyclopedia, www.simonsays.com/st, @1997 Pocket Books, Michael & Denise Okuda, Debbie Mirek
The Cookbook, www.simonsays.com/st, @1999 Pocket Books, Ethan Phillips, William J. Birnes
