FOOD: Delvin fluff pastries

A fattening delicacy that Bashir had been enjoying around the time of Dax's zhin'tara in late 2371; Odo knew he had two that morning. 
Neelix- "You've probably figured out by now that Kira has a major sweet tooth. I think it goes with that cute Bajoran nose that she likes to crinkle even when she's talking trash about Gul Dukat and the rest of the Cardassians. But when she's not kicking the stuffings out of a Jem'Hadar, she's nosing around for something sweet to eat. One of her favorite desserts- it has to be because it's too sweet for regular breakfast- is Delvin fluff pastries, little happy cakes that are so light, even though they have a filing, that they just disintegrate into a containment field of taste in your mouth. And they're tiny. My Terran equivalent is a French pastry called a petit four.
Sheet Cake:
5 eggs
1 1/4 cups cake flour
3/4 cups granulated sugar
3 tablespoons butter
1/4 teaspoon vanilla extract
1/8 teaspoon almond extract
Filling:
1 cup heavy cream, whipped, or 2 cups ready whipped cream
3 tablespoons confectioner's sugar
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
1/2 teaspoon mocha java or French roast coffee or Earl Grey tea
1/4 teaspoon orange extract
Glaze:
3 cups granulated sugar
1 1/2 cups water
1/4 teaspoon cream of tartar
1/4 teaspoon vanilla extract
1 or 2 drops food color of your choosing
Preheat oven to 325 degrees, and butter the bottoms of 2 jelly roll pans, approximately 10 by 15 inches. After you've buttered them, cover them with waxed paper so that the thin sheet cakes will be easy to cut into shapes and remove while still somewhat warm from the oven without breaking them. Next melt the 3 tablespoons of butter and set aside. You should have a double boiler for this recipe. If not, heat your eggs and sugar very carefully in a heavy saucepan while you beat them slowly with a hand mixer. If you have a double boiler, beat this mixture in the top of the double boiler until the mixture is thick and piles softly (about 10 minutes). Remove from heat and keep beating as it cools. After it has cooled, add the vanilla and almond extracts. Then, in four stages add the flour. At each stage, fold the flour in completely. When all the flour has been folded in, stir in the melted butter. Pour the batter into the baking pans and bake at 325 degrees for 45 minutes.
While your cakes are baking, prepare the filling. In a medium-sized bowl, whip the heavy cream until stiff or measure in the store bought whipped cream; then add the vanilla, coffee or tea, and sugar, blending them all completely, and set the filling aside in your refrigerator.
When the filling's completed, prepare the glaze by combining the sugar, water, and cream of tartar in a heavy saucepan and stirring over low heat. When the sugar is dissolved, increase heat to bring the mixture to a boil; then cover the saucepan and reduce to a slow boil for 5 minutes. After the first 2 minutes on a low boil, uncover and wipe any sugar crystals off the sides of the pan. When the cooking is completed, remove from heat and pour the sugar mixture into a mixing bowl and add the vanilla and any food coloring. Refrigerate this until the sheet cakes have completed baking and are completely cool. Remove from refrigerator and shape into a ball and set up for 15 minutes.
While the glaze is setting, spoon the filling onto the lower layer of your petit four sheet cake and place the upper layer over top. Let the filling cool. After the frosting has set, 15 minutes in your refrigerator, knead frosting into ball, working it into a soft, spreadable dough-like mixture which you will spread as a frosting that you can apply to the surface of your sheet cake with a spoon or narrow spatula. When you've finished frosting, cut the cake into small shapes- any designs that strike your fancy- and remove from the baking tray with the edges of the waxed paper. Serve.

Reference: For the Cause 
Information provided by:
The Continuum, www.startrek.com, @2002 2006 CBS Studios, Paramount Pictures
The Cookbook, www.simonsays.com/st, @1999 Pocket Books, Ethan Phillips, William J. Birnes
Star Trek in Sound & Vision, www.stinsv.com, @2003 Dave & Richard

