FOOD: eggs

The shelled embryo from an animal often eaten by humanoids and other animals. The embryo can be cooked, eaten raw, or used in a recipe to make other meals and entree's.
Porakan eggs are brown with brown speckles from an unspecified avian on Porakas IV which must be sterilized in a cryostatic chamber for three days and then par-boiled inside the shell. Neelix once prepared them scrambled with cream cheese and dill weed. 
Captain James Kirk used Ktarian eggs to woo back his girlfriend, Antonia, while he was trapped in the Nexus. He scrambled (without milk) them and added dill weed.
Regova eggs come from a Cardassian bird, and are a common appetizer on that planet. Quark made some of these to impress a delegation of female Cardassian scientists, but the ladies preferred non-Cardassian foods.
Brown-shelled eggs from an 'Owon (about the size of those of a Terran chicken) were picked up by Commander William Riker at Starbase 73 and later used to make breakfast omelettes for his friends. They are not the tastiest substitute for the Terran variety, apparently. They were small with strange varicolored shells and hard little yolks. But Riker was determined to eat what no man from Starfleet had eaten before and prepared an omelette in his quarters to serve his friends- actually his poker-playing partners. With my extensive galley experience as a short-order breakfast chef, I could have predicted that no one among his friends would like these excuses for eggs. But Worf, only Worf, scarfed them up. If you want to experiment with your own version of strange eggs I recommend you stay on the safe side and go no farther than the quacking duck. Even then you have to be very careful because the eggs of fowl other than hens may not be as rigorously processed. As a result, eggs from other fowl may be contaminated with bacteria, so you have to be very sure of the quality.
If you want to prepare a duck egg omelette, your own version of Owon eggs, use only very fresh duck eggs whose quality you know to be of the absolute heighest, wash the shells, and break the eggs into a mixing bowl. Beat them thoroughly and blend in 1/4 teaspoon rosemary, 1/4 teaspoon thyme, 1/4 teaspoon paprika, 1/4 teaspoon parsley, and 1/4 teaspoon garlic salt. In a hot, well-buttered skillet, fry them with just a touch of brie or light cream cheese, garnish with sprigs or parsley or even a touch of watercress, and serve nice and hot.
In the Delta Quadrant, an unspecified variety of eggs were ordered by Swinn and mishandled by Hogan while Neelix was absent within the merged life-form Tuvix. One identified type of egg, Takar Loggerhead, had been used early in the Voyager mission.

Often used to make such dishes as:
cakes and tortes, Eggs Benedict, and souffle's. As a single entree they are often prepared: hard boiled, soft boiled, scrambled, poached, over easy, over medium, over hard, sunny-side up, and fried

Reference: Time Squared, Generations, Destiny, The Cloud, Flashback
Information provided by:
The Continuum, www.startrek.com, @2002 2006 CBS Studios, Paramount Pictures
The Encyclopedia, www.simonsays.com/st, @1997 Pocket Books, Michael & Denise Okuda, Debbie Mirek
The Cookbook, www.simonsays.com/st, @1999 Pocket Books, Ethan Phillips, William J. Birnes



