FOOD: Feline supplements

A variety of foods designed to be consumed by Terran domesticated felines.
#74, The cat food Data ordered from the food dispensor for Spot on SD 44390. It was his own formula in an ever-evolving search for something the cat liked. 
#219, On Voyager I'd have prepared this for my cat, if I had one, using leftover hearts of targ and Helena Rozhenko's rokeg blood pie. On earth, you have to settle for leftover bregit lung or other beef organs.

1 pound liver, kidney, hearts, haggis, or other organs
2 cups bran
2 cups old-fashioned oatmeal or rolled oats
1/4 cup canola oil or other cooking oil
Preheat oven to 250 degrees. Cover meat with cold water and bring to boil in a large saucepan. Immediately lower heat and simmer for 30 minutes. Remove meat from water and let cool. Retain the water because you'll use it later. When the meat is cooled, chop it into small kibble-sized pieces and grind it up in your food processor or blender. Keep processing until it is completely ground. Now mix the ground meat, bran, oil, and oatmeal together, adding the retained cooking water to soften the mixture. You'll be making a thick, coarse dough that you'll hand-knead until it is just malleable enough to work with.
Now reform the dough into tiny kibbles or even biscuit-shaped pieces just bite-sized enough for your cat. The beautiful part about this recipe is that you can shape the food for your own pet. Tiny cat, make the pieces as small as rice grains- tedious, but rewarding; larger cat, size the pieces accordingly. Arrange them on a flat, slightly oiled, baking sheet, and bake at 250 degrees for 3 full hours. However, if you have a microwave, you're in luck. Arrange the cat-food pieces on a microwavable tray and zap them on high for about 10 minutes, and voila, you've warped time.
After the baking time is completed, turn your conventional oven off but don't remove the cat food. Let it sit in the oven for another couple of hours; then air-dry for an additional 24 hours. If you're using a microwave, nuke them on low for another 3 minutes, then let them sit out in the air for a day. These things last over a month, and your cat will love them.

Reference: Data's Day 
Information provided by:
The Continuum, www.startrek.com, @2002 2006 CBS Studios, Paramount Pictures
The Encyclopedia, www.simonsays.com/st, @1997 Pocket Books, Michael & Denise Okuda, Debbie Mirek
The Cookbook, www.simonsays.com/st, @1999 Pocket Books, Ethan Phillips, William J. Birnes
