FOOD: Finagle's Folly

I know about this drink, reputed to have the devastating impact of a photon torpedo. It's celebrated throughout the galaxy as the true test of wether a man, or a metamorph, can stand up at a bar and hold his liquor. The drink was reputed to have been invented by Dr. McCoy. Stop in at any bar or deep space station in the Alpha Quadrant, order a Finagle's Folly, and someone will bore you to death about Dr. McCoy. Except at Quark's, however, where Quark himself will boast that he invented the drink and challege you to a game of dabo if you don't believe him.
Since you don't have synthehol on Earth, it's probably a good idea to serve one of the many nonalcoholic versions. Here are the varieties in by-the-serving proportions. Simply multiply the ingredients by the number of servings for your parties, adjust for ice and the size of the serving glass, and make sure you don't let the drinks stand around so the ice melts. Do it right and everything else will equal out.

Cherry-Lime Finagle's Folly
8 to 12 ounces club soda or any carbonated water
2 good spritzes (tablespoons) cherry syrup
1 good spritz lime syrup
1 wedge of lemon or orange

This is a carbonated drink. You can replace the syrup and club soda with 8 ounces of cherry soda and 4 ounces of lemon-lime soda. Serve over ice with the lemon or orange wedge.

Lemonade-Orange Finagle's Folly
This is a non-carbonated drink. Start with fresh homemade or store-bought lemonade or lemonade mix or canned or frozen lemonade. You have plenty of products to choose from. For fresh lemonade by the glass, squeeze the juice of 10 medium-sized lemons into a large pitcher for each half-gallon of ice-cold water; add orange and lime slices for color and taste; add 2 cups of sugar, sugar syrup, or an equivalent amount of sweetener substitute; mix; and let sit in your refrigerator for about 1 hour before you serve. To make a Finagle's Folly, add a tablespoon either cherry syrup, store-bought cherry juice, or cherry cocktail, or even grenadine, to each glass and top with an orange or lemon wedge.

Fruit-Juice Finagle's Folly
In either a fruit-juice or fruit-drink version of this recipe, you can create many of the same fruity tastes and colors of the carbonated and non-carbonated versions of the drink simply by using fresh, canned, or botteled fruit juices. If you want to use your automatic juicer, you can juice a package of resh cranberries- these will have more tang and bite than a crisp autumn walk through the hills around Leonardo da Vinci's house in Captain Janeway's holoprogram- and mix the juice with fresh-squeezed orange juice, adding a splash of store-bought red or white grape juice as a sweetener and either a lemon or orange slice. For a sweeter drink, add one part of cranberry juice to three parts of orange juice with a splash of grape. White grape juice lightens the color; red darkens it. For a darker color and a more tangy drink, either mix the two in equal parts or use the orange juice and a splash of grape as a sweetener for the cranberry juice. To keep a darker red, mix one part red grape juice and one part orange juice to two parts cranberry. You can play with the flavors to get the exact taste you want and simply multiply the portions for the number of servings.

Reference:
Information provided by:
Star Trek Cookbook, www.simonsays.com/st, @1999 Pocket Books, Ethan Phillips and William J. Birnes
