FOOD: fungilli

An Italian pasta that is a specialty of engineer Dr. Leah Brahms; her hologram offers to make it for La Forge someday, and he returns the offer for the real Dr. Brahms during her inspection trip. 
Neelix- "For me  the saddest story of Chief Engineer Geordi La Forge is the story of a romantic dream, imagined love on the holodeck with a creature that inhabits the aspirations of the human spirit, but, alas, does not exist. He created a holoprogram that would ultimately save the Enterprise: however, the engineer would lose his heart. The holodeck created Dr. Leah Brahms. Geordi La Forge saw this holoimage as hi ideal woman, and then fell in love with her. But when, years later, the real Leah appeared in his life in the flesh- all married, all business, all the time- their relationship was not to be. Poor Geordi! He was just about to establish a friendly relationship with the real Leah when she stumbled upon the holo-Leah and even the friendly relationship had to be repaired. And if this makes sense to you, you should look into a career handling peerage reports for the Borg or, even better, getting a job in politics. In any event, and there were many of them, Leah's favorite recipe was for fungilli, which Geordi replicated for her. Here's my version of Geordi's romantic meal with Leah Brahms- real Leah, holo-Leah.
If you like to make your own pasta and have some form of a bread maker and pasta machine, you can have pasta as fresh as today's harvest. If you don't, you can still enjoy fungilli in your own kitchen with some of the fresh refrigerated pastas on the market or the veggie pastas in some of the many health-food stores in your town.
Leah Brahms' and La Forge's fungilli is actually a heartily spicy pasta made from fresh muchrooms and garlic ground into a pasta dough and served piping hot with garlic-and-olive-oil sauce. You can try to Alfredo it up with a Romano cheese and cream sauce, but I wouldn't recommend it because the cream and cheese with overpower the subtle flavor of the mushrooms. The garlic will take care of itself.

1 dozen mushrooms, chopped
10 cloves garlic
4 teaspoons olive oil
1/2 cup grated Romano cheese

PASTA
2 cups semolina flour
2 eggs, beaten
1 teaspoon salt
2 tablespoon olive oil
1/2 cup water

Wash thoroughly about 1 dozen mushrooms of your choice, the more exotic the better. Wild mushrooms have a gamier flavor and usually make a better pasta, but just about any mushroom will do. Next, following the instructions for your brand of bread maker, mix the mushrooms and 6 cloves of crushed garlic into your pasta dough and prepare the pasta dough for your pasta maker. Now prepare the pasta, slice it into the shape you want, and cook it in boiling water until al dente. Drain and set aside while you brown 4 sliced garlic cloves in a teaspoon of olive oil. Just as the cloves begin to sizzle, pour the remaining olive oil over the pasta, add the garlic, and toss with the cheese, and serve.
You can also make a version of this dish using store-bought black squid pasta. Follow the same directions for the olive-oil-and-garlic sauce with cheese.

Reference: Booby Trap, Galaxy's Child
Information provided by:
The Continuum, www.startrek.com, @2002 2006 CBS Studios, Paramount Pictures
The Encyclopedia, www.simonsays.com/st, @1997 Pocket Books, Michael & Denise Okuda, Debbie Mirek
The Cookbook, www.simonsays.com/st, @1999 Pocket Books, Ethan Phillips, William J. Birnes
