FOOD: gagh

A legend well beyond the limits of the Klingon Empire, these serpent worms (pronounced "gawk") are served live and one of the dishes Riker enjoyed during his pre-transfer feast as an exchange officer to the IKS Pagh; he offered some to Pulaski, but she declined. On the Voyager, Torres did not want a cold bowl at Neelix's Klingon breakfast buffet. 
Klingons will kill for fresh gagh; they often need a lot less incentive. Replicated gagh is flat; it doesn't have that gamy flavor that makes your eyes water and your breath catch in your throat. Do you know that there are at least fifty-one varieties of gagh? B'Elanna tells me that bithool gagh is her favorite- it has feet. I suspect that even those humans who say they'd kill for vibrant fresh sashimi would recoil in horror at a plate of squirming Klingon worms. So I have the next best thing. You can eat it, shake it, and it still tastes good. The ingredients are as follows:

1 pound package thick Japanese udon noodles (whole wheat is best), soba noodles, or Chinese or Thai rice noodles
4 ounces prepared sesame salad dressing or Chinese chicken salad dressing or tahini
1/4 cup soy sauce or light soy sauce
1 teaspoon dark brown Karo syrup, if you find it necessary for color

Prepare the noodles per the package instructions, replacing one-half the water with the soy sauce. Chill. Then stir through quarter-cup soy sauce and sesame salad dressing. Add Karo syrup and stir through to satisfy your own sense of color and taste, and there you have it gagh!
I sometimes serve gagh for Lieutenant Torres with a side dish of another Klingon favorite, gladst. The leafy brown Klingon vegetable is best replaced on your table with arugula. Use it as a garnish for the gagh and you have a light lunch or an appetizer for your Klingon parties. Gagh, of course, is the main element in my Klingon cold breakfast buffet that most of the crew enjoys, especially B'Elanna. Serves two.

Cardassian Style, with Yamok Sauce
Although the Klingons and Cardassian fought a war in the Alpha Quadrant, Klingon gagh and Cardassian yamok sauce have a natural affinity for each other. Cardassians are not fond of living wriggly things. They like heavy game meat and poultry, and they like their food cooked. However, the tang of yamok sauce so sets off anything meaty, including serpent worms, I combine the Klingon and Cardassian in my own version of the gagh that Riker would have shared with Worf aboard the Enterprise before he beamed over to the Pagh.

Reference: A Matter of Honor, 
Alan Sims- "This dish always had to look like living worms, especially when the Klingon warriors scooped them up in their hands. Originally the gagh were white, not whole wheat, Oriental udon noodles that I dyed brown with soy sauce. As a base, you can use soy sauce, some sesame salad dressing, the salad dressing you use for Chinese Chicken Salad, or the brown stir-fry sauce that really clings to the noodles and acts like a dye but really isn't. Gagh is best served on a bed of a Klingon vegetable called gladst. That can be any strange-looking leafy vegetable like arugula."
Information provided by:
The Continuum, www.startrek.com, @2002 2006 CBS Studios, Paramount Pictures
The Encyclopedia, www.simonsays.com/st, @1997 Pocket Books, Michael & Denise Okuda, Debbie Mirek
The Cookbook, www.simonsays.com/st, @1999 Pocket Books, Ethan Phillips, William J. Birnes
Star Trek in Sound & Vision, www.stinsv.com, @2003 Dave & Richard
