FOOD: Gala Apple Pie

When the enterprise visits a place where no human being has gone before, Captain Kirk finds himself in a real pickle after he bounces the ship off the energy barrier at the edge of the galaxy and, in the process, gets his best friend, Lieutenant Commander Gary Mitchell, zorched with an unknown energy surge that mutates him into something that even Spock wants killed. Poor guy, that Gary Mitchell. But before his eyes began to glow, and his psychokinetic powers extended to the operations of the Enterprise, Lieutenant Commander Mitchell enjoyed biting into a fresh, snappy, Gala apple, just like you'd fins in California's vast apple orchards. Gala apples are also very much like the Kaferian apples that Mitchell once created on Delta Vega.
Let's talk about pastry crusts. Sure, you can make your own, whip up the ingredients in an automatic bread machine, and then toll it out on a sheet. Sure you can do that. You could also try to make your gums bleed with your tongue. I mean, do you have all day? I suggest you purchase one of those ready-made pie crust mixes from the store or one of the pre-baked crusts. After that you should prepare the following ingredients:

6 cups Gala apples, peeled, sliced, and cored
1/2 cup sugar
1 tablespoon cornstarch
1 tablespoon light cream
1/2 teaspoon cinnamon
1/4 teaspoon vanilla extract

Preheat oven to 450 degrees. Cover apples with water, boil, and cook for about 45 minutes or until they are very moist and soft. Drain. Combine remaining ingredients and mix into the soft apple filling. Next prepare your packaged or pre-baked crust in a pie tin and spoon in the apple filling. Moisten edge of crust, cover with another layer of crust, pierce to crust with fork, and bake pie at 450 degrees for 10 minutes. reduce heat to 350. Bake for an additional 35 to 45 minutes, depending upon your oven. After 3 minutes, check crust for doneness.

Reference:
Information provided by:
Star Trek Cookbook, www.simonsays.com/st, @1999 Pocket Books, Ethan Phillips, William J. Birnes
