FOOD: ginger tea

Dr. Beverly Crusher learned to adopt this herbal remedy that Captain Jean Luc Picard's aunt Adele served to cure anyone in the family of the symptoms of the common cold. Ginger tea is a simple but very elegant remedy; the sharp tang of the ginger root opens up clogged nasal passages and bronchial tubes and reinvigorates the entire system. Ginger tea also helps you fight off the ravages of intestinal influenza. Need I say more?
I suggest green tea with ginger. Prepare this by the cup, with your favorite bag of green tea in the cup or in any tea infuser. Cut off a thin slice of ginger, let it steep in the cup with extra-hot water and a tea bag for 3 minutes. Add drink it down. Use fresh instead of powdered ginger for a more invigorating taste. A couple of days on green tea, or even jasmine tea, with ginger and your cold and flu symptoms will be gone.
Pyrellian ginger tea is a variety of tea that was apparently difficult to come by during the Cardassian occupation of Bajor. During her time in the resistance, Kira enjoyed some with the Bajoran collaborator Vaatrik shortly before completing her mission to kill him. Neelix said after a deep bowl of Vak Clover Soup, hearty plate of stew, and a Troi-sized slice of Yigrish cream pie, rather than keeling over with a heart attack that requires the doctor to work you over in sickbay, have a cup of Pyrellian ginger tea to reduce your skyrocketing blood pressure. A combination of ginger and ginseng teas, Pyrellian ginger tea was so valuable, Quark actually risked his little life by hoarding the stuff on Terok Nor during the occupation, for resale on the black market.
Here's how to brew an Earth version using standard black or oolong tea. For every bag of tea or teaspoon of loose tea you infuse, snip one good-sized piece of ginseng from a ginseng root. Steep both the ginger and the ginseng with the bag of tea for a serious pick-me-up. Warning! Don't drink this brew just before going to bed, especially if this is your first major hit of ginseng, unless you're prepared to bounce off the walls at night. Ginseng is powerful stuff. So drink this as an afternoon beverage, because it's quite stimulating. I can see why Quark found a ready market for it.

Reference: Necessary Evil
Information provided by:
The Continuum, www.startrek.com, @2002 2006 CBS Studios, Paramount Pictures
The Cookbook, www.simonsays.com/st, @1999 Pocket Books, Ethan Phillips, William J. Birnes


