FOOD: greenbread

A bread that Depnen, the Yaderan "colony's" baker, used to make. He saved his best loaves of it for the family of Anetra, Taya's mother. 
Neelix- "Commander Sisko likes his Yaderan staple for breakfast, as a late lunch, but particularly with his Chiraltan tea. Rather than hunt all around the Bajoran wormhole for the roots the Yaderans use, you simply substitute either a mild or spicy pesto sauce. You can also bake it with greent ea for a dessert version. But if you really want to achieve an exotic taste to complement Chiraltan tea or any of the other spicy teas that turn up on Deep Space 9, try to prepare yours with a few flakes of either dried or roasted seaweed.
You can buy seaweed at any Asian market, where you'll find scores of varieties. There's rolled seaweed, flattened seaweed, roasted-for-sushi seaweed, and dried seaweed by the bag. You probably have to rehydrate the dried stuff by following the package instructions. Don't use too much seaweed, maybe 1/4 cup at most, because the stuff is truly intense.
To make this in your automatic bread maker, begin by following the instructions for basic white bread that came with your appliance and add either 1/2 cup pesto sauce- you can use packaged- for a sharp taste that will go with chicken a la Sisko or ratamba stew, or infused green tea leaves for a dessert bread. But add just 1/4 cup of seaweed as the last dry ingredient, and enjoy the fresh aroma as it bakes.
Don't have an automatic bread maker? No problem! You can buy what's known as "quick bread" mix from the supermarket and bake bread right in your own oven just like the pros do. Again, use the white bread mix, follow the package instructions for your particular oven and baking pan setup, add either the 1/2 cup pesto sauce or the infused green tea leaves, and don't forget the 1/4 cup of seaweed. The Yaderans will wish they had your recipe, especially when the aroma wafts skyward.

Reference: Shadowplay 
Information provided by:
The Continuum, www.startrek.com, @2002 2006 CBS Studios, Paramount Pictures
The Cookbook, www.simonsays.com/st, @1999 Pocket Books, Ethan Phillips, William J. Birnes
