FOOD: Gyronian Meat Loaf

On Voyager, this dish is made with hormoos, a parasite that lives on the backs of Gyronian wamules. They are virtually undetachable, unless you can get the wamules to sneeze. Hormoos will always flee a sneezing Gyronian wamule. Obviously the trick is to get the wamule to sneeze. Crushed snazzle seeds blown through a dekko reedin the vicinity of their noses will accomplish this. But wear earplugs, because the sneeze from a wamule is very loud, and very unpleasant to boot. Once the hormoos leaps off, catch it in a "hor" net. Dispatch it quickly to hormoos heaven, skin it, and grind the meat. I mix it with Fargonian finger apples and Ukitarian cave carrots and sand nuts. You can serve it cold, wrapped in a Terran gyro roll or pita bread.
One pound of meat loaf will serve 4 to 6 or make 6 sandwiches. One and one half pounds is all you need to feed the whole crew for lunch if you have enough rolls or pita pockets to make sandwiches.

1 1/2 pounds fresh ground beef or lamb, or even turkey or beef-lamb combination
1/2 cup tomato juice or vegetable juice or Bloody Mary mix
1/4 cup marinara or meatless tomato sauce
1/2 cup chopped onions
2 cloves chopped garlic
1 teaspoon celery seed
1 teaspoon dried parsley
1/4 teaspoon Tabasco or Louisiana hot sauce
sea salt and freshly ground pepper to taste

Preheat oven to 375 degrees and lightly grease a loaf pan. Combine all the meat, juice, onions, garlic, celery seed, parsley, hot sauce, and salt and pepper in a mixing bowl and thoroughly knead until the meat is soft and squishy. Then place meat in your loaf pan and top with tomato sauce. Bake for 1 hour, then test for doneness. Make sure the center of the loaf is thoroughly cooked before serving. Serve steaming hot, either sliced plain or on either soft hero (gyro) rolls or pita-bread pockets. You can also refrigerate the leftovers and serve cold meat-loaf sandwiches the next day.

Reference:
Information provided by:
Star Trek Cookbook, www.simonsays.com/st, @1999 Pocket Books, Ethan Phillips, William J. Birnes

