FOOD: Haggis

"Ye Pow'rs wha mak mankind your care, 
And dish them out their bill o' fare,
Auld Scotland wants nae skinking ware,
That jaups in luggies;
But, if ye wish her gratefu' prayer,
Gie her a haggis!"
-Address to a Haggis, Robert Burns

Scotty had his food slots, but then the Enterprise didn't have a master galley chef like Neelix to pull them through their darkest moments.  When those stone-hearted Excalbians conjured the heroes and villains to join Kirk and Spock in their great battle against evil, had Scotty been forced to prepare a special meal for Terran President Abraham Lincoln from scratch, no doubt he would have thought seriously about hamburgers, or lambburgers if the wool wouldn't always get stuck in your teeth. If it deoes, knit a scarf.
I don't have the luxury of replicators, and neighter do you. So were I to prepare a ceremonial meal for some claymore-wielding, bagpipe-blowing, tartan-flying ancestor of Lieutenant Commander Montgomery Scott or Captain Janeway, I'd have to find some young but unfortunate four-legged wooly creature wadering around the surface of one of our many class-M Delta Quadrant planets, beam the wee bairn of a beastie up, and prepare it for the champion's portion.
There are so many different ways of making a haggis and so many different compositions of ingredients that entire clans might feud over whether to m ince the tripe or serve it in large duodenal or jujenal sections, Klingon style. Maybe the Fitzgibbons include just a taste of lungs (what the Scots call "lights") and the MacHughes want the whole shebang. From my Starfleet computer records I was able to retrieve the standard recipe from an old Middle Scots primer. I don't read Middle Scots, so if this dish tastes more like Chow Fon from a twentieth-century Earth neighborhood in a city in the Northeastern United States, blame Tom Paris and not me. You, however, should feel free to modify this recipe to fit the likings of your own clan.

1 sheep's big stomach bag
1 sheep's little stomach bag
1 sheep's hear
1 sheep's set of lungs
1 sheep's liver
1/2 pound beef suet
3 cups John McCann's Irish Oatmeal or Quaker regular oatmeal (dinna use instant)
2 cups salt
2 teaspoons ground pepper

Either from your butcher or from the manager of the supermarket meat section, get yourself the bag of a sheep's large stomach along with the smaller bag. Make sure to leave the windpipe and esophagus from the small bag attached through the entire preparation and cooking process until it's time to mince the small bag. This is part of the fun. Also buy the sheep's liver and the heart. This already sounds Klingon, doesn't it? As you might have guessed by now, wash everything as thoroughly as possible. These stomach bags and their adjacent organs require not only washing, but a complete sterilization. So you run them under cold water for as long as it takes to get the blood, loose sections, and food drained off. Next, boil two bags, heart, lungs, and liver to get any scum and crud to float to the top. Skim the water and boil some more. You must do all this without breaking the large bag, because that the whole point of haggis- ever see a bagpipe? Now let them cool, and rinse in cold water again. Now it's time for a gentle scraping to clean the inside and outside of the bag. When the bag is clean, it's time to salt it. Place in large bowl, cover with water and the salt. You do this by letting it sitin heavily salted water for at least twenty-four hours. I've heard tell of Scots way back when who had their entire pantries filled with salting sheep bags because salt is a great preservative. You must also wash the lungs, heart, and liver in cold water. If you are not immediately preparing the dish, refrigerate until ready to use.
On the day you wish to prepare and serve the haggis, to begin, boil the lungs, heart, liver, and the little stomach bag in a large soup pot, the kind you'd use to boil lobsters or make a week's worth of bouillabaisse, with just enough water to reach the brim during the boil without boiling over the side, for between 1 1/2 and 2 hours. Drape the windpipe over the side of the pot, and place a large cup to catch any drippings, so that any remaining crud on the inside of the lining will vent. Examine the windpipe hanging over the edge of the pot for what you suspect might be lingering dirt or any other material from the boiling organ. When the windpipe vent is pure and the organs seem tender, remove from heat and allow them to cool. Keep the liquid because you will use some of it later.
After the organs have cooled, pare away any remaining skin, gristle, and the windpipe itself. Make sure that the liver, heart, little bag, and lungs are completely cooked. If they are not, you'll have to reboil them until they're thoroughly cooked.. If they are done, grate as finely as you can about 1/3 of the liver which is about all you will use. Next finely mince the heart, the little bag itself, and the lungs. Now chop the 1/2 pound of beef suet finely as well. Set these aside.
Follow the cooking instructions on the package for toasting the rolled oats or oatmeal. Or simply toast them on a flat baking sheet in your oven or in your toaster oven at 350 degrees for about 5 minutes until they get brown, but not burnt. When they are toasted, mix the oats with the suet, grated liver, heart, lungs, and small stomach bag, the remaining 1/2 cup of salt, and pepper. Add some of the water in which you boiled the organs and slowly stir into a soft, almost hamburger or turkey-stuffing-like texture. Then stuff the mixture into the large stomach bag until about 2/3 full. Like turkey stuffing, organs and oatmeal expand as they cook, and you don't want them to explode out of the stomach bag during cooking. Once you've stuffed the bag, sew it up with strong thread, just they way you would a stuffed turkey ready for the oven.
In a large soup or stew pot, set a metal rack and put the stomach bag which is npw your haggis, on the rack. Cover the haggis with cold water and bring to a boil, reducing heat to a rolling boil for 3 1/2 hours. As the haggis boils you'll want to pierce the bag to vent.
After 3 1/2 hours, the haggis should be done and should be served immediately, straight up, just as it is. Serves six. You might also want to play a bagpipe, read aloud from Sir Walter Scott's "Marmion", or recrystallize the dilithium crystals while the Enterprise is about to burn up in the outer atmosphere of some dreadful demon planet at the edge of the quadrant and Captain Kirk screams over the ship's communicator that you've been fired.

Haggis Lite
Haggis is as much a commitment as it is a meal. If you don't have a week to prepare your haggis for the gathering of your clan, or simply don't want to go around asking your supermarket manager to save you the stomach bags of sheep, you will probably like my recipe for haggis lite. You replace the stomach bags with cheesecloth and replace the heart, lungs, and small stomach bag with liver and precooked tripe, for a less intense but interesting meal. You can get precooked tripe from your supermarket or follow the package directions for preparing it yourself. You will need the following:

1/2 pound single piece of liver
1/2 pound cooked tripe
4 ounces chopped beef suet
4 ounces quick-cook oatmeal
1/2 cup chopped onion
salt and pepper to taste

Boil the liver in a saucepan for 15 minutes with just enough water to cover it, then grate it or put it through a mincer or chop it into tiny pieces. Do the same with your cooked tripe. Reserve the water in which you boiled the liver. Mix the liver and tripe in a medium-sized bowl with the oatmeal, suet, and onion; add some of the water you've reserved to soften the mixture. Season with salt and pepper to taste and knead the mixture into a mound. Stuff it into a cheesecloth bag and tie the bag closed to prevent spillage. Boil for two hours. Serve immediately, yields four to six servings, without the bag, of course.

Cup-a-Haggis
Use the leftovers from haggis lite to make an instant Bovril-like pick-me-up with a Klingonesque edge. Take leftovers from your ceremonial Scots, or Scotty's feast, and freeze them in ice-cube trays. When they're good and frozen, pop them out into freezer bags and store forever in your freezer. Whenever you want a quick haggis fix, take a cube out of your freezer and put it in a microwavable mug, throw in a beef bouillon cube or a single-serving envelope of freeze-dried beef bouillon and 6 ounces of cold water. Defrsot in your microwave, usually on the "defrost" or 1/3 power setting for about 1 minute. Then microwave on high for 1 1/2 to 2 minutes, depending upon your microwave, to bring to a boil. Let it cool a little, lest you sear your lips off, and enjoy. Double the microwaving time for more than one serving.
As a general rule, food leaving your microwave is extraordinarily hot and can burn. This is especially important to remember when kids are using the microwave. So always, always, allow foods and the containers they sit in/on to cool before touching them.

Reference:
Information provided by:
Star Trek Cookbook, www.simonsays.com/st, @1999 Pocket Books, Ethan Phillips, William J. Birnes
