FOOD: heart of targ

This preparation of the Klingon wild boar's heart is among the dishes Riker choose for his feast before transferring aboard the Pagh as an exchange officer. 
It's true what they say: "If you want to be a Klingon warrior, you gotta have heart." In this case, I'd recommend veal rather than beef because veal is more tender and the heart is muscle that can be rather tough. For this heart casserole, I suggest four veal hearts- you can get them from any butcher or the butcher section of your supermarket (tell 'em you're a Klingon and let it go at that). You will also need some store-bought stuffing, such as Stovetop, unless you want to make your own celery or apple stuffing from bread crumbs or croutons. Heart of targ itself is very simple to make.

4 veal hearts as tender as possible
5 cups beef bouillon or vegetale-stock bouillon or canned prepared tomato soup
8 slices thick-sliced bacon
1 package store-bought stuffing mix, prepared per instructions

Preheat oven to 325 degrees. Wash the veal hearts in cold water to remove all surface impurities, fat, blood vessels, and blood. This can be a messy job if you're not a Klingon, but it has to be done in order to render the heart pure red muscle without any gristle or blood on the surface.
Place your hearts on a rack in a shallow baking dish- you can use a pie tin- and douse with 2 1/2 cups bouillon stock, or prepared tomato soup. Cover hearts with bacon strips; then cover the dish and bake at 325 degrees for 1 1/2 hours.
If you are using store-bought stuffing, wait until the final 30 minutes and prepare stuffing. If you are making stuffing from scratch, soften the croutons with the bouillon and drippings from the baking hearts. When the stuffing is just moist, stir in apples and celery. Keep adding bouillon until the stuffing is soft.
Remove hearts from the oven after 90 minutes, stuff, and recover with tomato soup or remaining bouillon; and return to oven for 30 minutes at 350 degrees. Increase heat to 400 degrees for 5 minutes; then remove from oven and serve on a bed of gladst with ale ore red wine.
This dish may take some getting used to, but remember reading that Will Riker, before he accepted the job of first officer on the Pagh, taught himself to love heart of targ. Serves four.
For those of you too squeamish to try veal heart, you can bake 1 1/2 pounds calf liver, cut into 1 1/2-inch squares, following almost the same recipe. Prepare the liver as the veal was above, covering it with bacon strips, and while it is baking, prepare the stuffing. After baking it for 2 hours, remove the calf liver from the rack, place it one a bed of stuffing, and return it to the oven for another 30 minutes. This dish is as tasty as heart, certainly more tender, and when served either on 6-8 skewers or as hors d'oeuvres, will complement the lustiest vintage Bordeaux you can serve. Serves six to eight.

Reference: A Matter of Honor 
Alan Sims- "When I did heart of targ I used liver, raw liver. It wasn't made edible because it was only a prop that wasn't to be eaten. It was first discussed on the show when Riker was sitting at the table in "A Matter of Honor," when he was being indoctrinated into the Klingon culture to get used to it before going to the Pagh. That food didn't have to be eaten. The targ wasn't eaten at all. So I had the liberty to really get wild and could use some raw "organ food." We did this again on Voyager for Roxanne, and this time she actually had to eat a piece of it, so at least that portion had to be edible."
Information provided by:
The Continuum, www.startrek.com, @2002 2006 CBS Studios, Paramount Pictures
The Encyclopedia, www.simonsays.com/st, @1997 Pocket Books, Michael & Denise Okuda, Debbie Mirek
The Cookbook, www.simonsays.com/st, @1999 Pocket Books, Ethan Phillips, William J. Birnes
