FOOD: Hrothgar's Leg of Elk

"Wyrd oft nefed unfaegne eorl pone his ellen deah."

Truer words were never strummed in epic poetry, struck on the strings of a kithara, or declaimed from the foot of a mead throne.
But I was surprised when the Doctor told me that the Age of Heroes is where and when I would find his favorite meal, a time in Earth history where even as a hologram he strode bravely across the misty moors in the imaginary landscape of ensign Kim's holonovel Beowulf, where he feasted upon roast holographic leg of elk and drank from the mead horn. This is not something I could make up on the ship. Where can you get a leg of elk in the Delta Quadrant? You can't; it isn't even in our replicator's memory. We'd have to go seventy thousand light-years away to the Alpha Quadrant, to Alaska, and use our phaser on some hapless wapiti. If you really want to be historical, the ancient Saxons feasted upon boar, but fresh boar's hard to find these days, too. So I examined the memory data from that epic saga, and came up with a roast-leg-of-lamb recipe that comes pretty darn close to what the Doc enjoyed at the gebeorscipe with all those mead-mongering, horn-helmeted holo-swains from the Dark Ages.
Here is the Doctor's favorite dish as altered for real people:

8-pound leg of lamb
2 cloves garlic, thinly sliced
6 tablespoons olive oil
2 tablespoons freshly ground pepper
1 tablespoon coarse salt

After preheating your oven to 425 degrees, cut slits into the leg of lamb; work 3 tablespoons olive oil, salt and 1 tablespoon pepper into the slits; then stuff them with slices of garlic. Brush the lamb with the remaining olive oil and pepper, and roast in oven at 425 degrees for 1 hour, then reduce heat to 375 degrees for an additional 1 hour and 15 minutes. Lamb will be well done. Serve not with wine but Klingon ale; Guinness, Harp, or Foster's will do. Serves eight.

Reference: 
Information provided by:
Star Trek Cookbook, www.simonsays.com/st, @1999 Pocket Books, Ethan Phillips, William J. Birnes
