FOOD: jambalaya

A spicy Terran Creole food of the Louisiana region, mainly rice cooked with shrimp, chicken, oysters or ham. Likely learned from his father, Sisko cooks up a pot for the first night out on the Gamma Quadrant "vacation" with Jake, Nog and Quark. Joseph Sisko always felt neither his daughter Judith nor his late wife put enough cayenne pepper in their jambalaya. 
"Jambalaya, crawfish pie, file' gumbo" - Old Cajun Folk Song
Neelix- "Technically a Creole stew, jambalaya is a rice dish that can be prepared any way you like it with leftovers you have on hand. It's description sounds like its name, a jumble of vegetables, fish, meat, or poultry. I can make it vegetarian style, baked, with mushrooms and olives. I can also make it in a skillet with any meat, fish, game, or shellfish that I feel like using. It can be very spicy, loaded with chili and cayenne pepper, or more of a mild, thick-tomato-and-rice soup. Jambalaya was a staple at Joseph Sisko's restaurant, where he liked it spciy. He said that his wife and daughter, Commander Sisko's sister, Judith- never put enough cayenne pepper in their jambalaya. Because I'm a Talaxian used to dealing with all different cultures, I can make jambalaya many ways to satisfy different tastes. I make a vegetarian style jambalaya that I can serve to Tuvok and Commander Chakotay. I also have a meat-and0fish version that I can serve to Tom Paris and B'Elanna Torres for their private dinners, and a true Klingon version with Klingon blood sausage. My Harry Kim version is from California with jalapenos, and my recipe for Quark's, should I ever wind up at Deep Space 9, contains New Mexico green chiles in honor of the crash of an alien vessel near the city of Roswell. It was there that someone, Starfleet records from the mid-twentieth-century on Earth tell us, who looked awfully like Ferengi, wound up at a military base and inadvertently started this whole UFO business by getting the 509th intelligence officer Jesse Marcel worked up, Colonel Blanchard excited enough to order Lieutenant Walter Hunt to write his famous press release, and General Roger Ramey "madder 'n Hell" when he pulled the plug and called it a weather balloon. Imagine, a Ferengi in a weather balloon. Actually, we all know that it was really a Project Mogul balloon because all Ferengi are the biggest business moguls in the Alpha Quadrant.

2 cups uncooked rice
4 cups water
2 tablespoons crushed bay leaves
1 teaspoon pickling spices
2 stalks celery with leaves, chopped
1 large onion, chopped
1 large bell pepper, chopped
3 large, quartered tomatoes or 16 ounce can tomatoes
1 dozen mushrooms, sliced (optional)
1 red chili pepper, seeded and chopped (optional)
1/4 cup olive oil
1/2 cup (1 stick) butter
6 cloves garlic, crushed
2 tablespoons cumin seed, bruised

You can prepare this dish two ways: baked or simmered. First, however, boil the rice in water to which you've added the crushed bay leaves and pickling spices. When the rice is boiling, reduce heat to a low simmer and cover. The rice will take about 20 minutes to cook.
For teh simmered version, just after you've turned the boiling rice back to simmer, in a skillet, saute the garlic in the olive oil and butter, then the peppers, the optional chili pepper, and onions. As those begin to cook, add the mushrooms if desired to the pan. After the mushrooms have browned, remove the entire mixture from the skillet and set aside. Now, in the same skillet, combine the tomatoes, celery, and the cumin seed and simmer for at least 40 minutes. Add cooked vegetables back, stir through. Add 1/4 cup of jambalaya mixture to the rice just before it's finished cooking and stir through the browned mushrooms, peppers, optional chili pepper, and onions. Set aside. When the jambalaya sauce is finished, pour over the rice and serve. For the baked version, preheat your oven to 300 degrees, and when the sauce is finished cooking add the cooked rice to the mixture, pour into a baking dish, and bake for 40 minutes. Serves six.
You can be very creative with all different versions. For the meat-and-fish version, I'd begin by frying 1/2 pound of bacon, along with a slice of ham and some sausage, in a large skillet while the rice is cooking. At the same time, I would also boil about 1 1/2 pounds of medium shrimp in the shrimp boil, along with any other combination of shellfish such as clams and oysters. You can also prepare monkfish or even cod in your broiler and add to the boil. Set the meat aside when done. Prepare the jambalaya sauce as in the vegetarian recipe- I would leave out the mushrooms- and add the meat and shellfish at the very end. Then either pour over rice for individual servings or add the rice to the jambalaya sauce and ladle out into individual bowls. When you're making this meat-and-fish version, I would thin the sauce out with 2 cups water from the shrimp and shellfish boil for a more soup-like instead of sauce-like consistency.
The meat-and-fish version of Sisko's jambalaya can also be enhanced with leftover barbecued or roasted chicken. It can also be served over fried catfish and rice.
For your Roswell 1947, jambalaya, add a finely chopped and seeded green chili pepper instead of a red chili pepper to the mix and another couple of teaspoons of cumin seed, bruised. the result is a mild form of chili jambalaya, combining soft Gulf Coast and fiery Southwestern flavors. For a California style jambalaya, in place of the chili pepper, add 5 chopped and seeded jalapeno peppers, but do it in moderation because jalapenos add lots of hot spicy flavor. A great side dish to accompany your jambalaya is Ben Sisko's favorite, sauteed beets. Serves six.

Reference: Homefront, Little Green Men
Information provided by:
The Continuum, www.startrek.com, @2002 2006 CBS Studios, Paramount Pictures
The Cookbook, www.simonsays.com/st, @1999 Pocket Books, Ethan Phillips, William J. Birnes
