FOOD: Madeleines

These little delights- sweet, tiny cakes that you can carry with you to your workstation, whether in engineering or your Dilbert-like cubicle in the bowels of some heartless human corporation on Earth- are not especially easy to make, but they're so much fun it's worth it. Also, if you like your Earl Grey tea hot, like Captain Picard, you'll find madeleines are the perfect accompaniment. Picard has an affinity for them because they're the most celebrated edible tidbit in all of French literature. That's thy they're a favorite of his.
Before you begin, you'll need to get a tray of happy little madeleine molds. These are metal trays into which you will pour your batter, and you can get them at any department store, kitchen supply store, gift shop, or even a supermarket. You will need one tary with a dozen molds. The ingredients are the following:

2 eggs
1/2 cup sifted all-purpose flour
1/4 cup ( 1/2 stick) butter, melted
1/4 cup sugar
1 teaspoon lemon juice
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
1/2 teaspoon grated orange peel
1/8 teaspoon salt

Begin by buttering and flouring your madeleine molds and preheating your oven to 325 degrees. Next, melt the butter, and while it's cooling, sift together the flour and the salt; set that mixture aside. Blend the eggs, sugar, lemon juice, and orange peel into a smooth mixture and fold the flour/ salt mixture combination through it. Stir. Next, add the cooled butter and stir until it becomes a smoothly flowing batter. Pour the batter into your molds about 2/3 full and bake for about 25 minutes or until you see them turn a light brown. Do not overcook. You can test for doneness by pressing the center of the cake in the mold down, and if it springs back, it's done. After cooking, let your madeleines cool before removing them from the molds.
These little orangey cakes go very well with Earl Grey tea and make perfect afternoon tea snacks as well as desserts for lunchboxes and late-night snacks. Bake up a whole bunch and refrigerate them. Or freeze them-they'll defrost by the time you reach the office- and nuke them 20-30 seconds on "high" in the microwave at work.

Reference:
Information provided by:
Star Trek Cookbook, www.simonsays.com/st, @1999 Pocket Books, Ethan Phillips, William J. Birnes
