FOOD: Mead

In addition to these traditional dishes I include a recipe for a special brew from Earth history: mead. Ensign Kim programmed the holonovel Beowulf, which is about an aging Danish king named Hrothgar who lives in a towering mead hall that is visited each night after the big beer bash by a monster named Grendel who gobbles up members of the king's retinue of warriors. Nobody among Hrothgar's hearth companions can vanquish the eveil Grendel, until a troop of Geas led by Beowulf- a Saxon Kahless- lands on the shore of Hrothgar's kingdom. After a hand-to-hand battle even e Klingon would envy, Beowulf dispatches Grendel by yanking the monster's arm from its socket and sending him packing to the nether regions under a dark mere. In honor of that great battle, and Mr. Kim's glorious epic, I prepared the following recipe for the favorite drink of the Healfdanes, honey mead.

11 pints (22 cups) cold water
1/4 ounce peeled, sliced fresh ginger or 2 teaspoons ground ginger
1/2 teaspoon brewer's yeast or baker's yeast
18 ounces clover or orange honey
1 teaspoon freshly grated lemon peel

In a large soup pot, bring the cold water to a boil. Add honey and reduce heat to a simmer.  Slowly dissolve the honey in the simmering water, and when it is fully dissolved, bring the mixture back to a rolling boil. In the uncovered pot, let the honey mixture boil down to just over half its original volume as you skim any impurities- what Anglo-Saxons called crud- from the surface of the water.
After about two hours, check for clarity. When the mixture is no longer cloudy and there is no more crud to skim, reduce heat to a slower boil and add the ginger. Brew for another half hour and add the lemon peel; let it boil a minute or so, and remove from the heat. Set aside to cool to lukewarm, then add the yeast.
Cover and let sit for 24 to 36 hours, while the fermentation process begins. Next, using thick, heavy, sealable mason jars, you will beottle the mixture, filling the jars only three-wuarters full. Set the jars aside in a safe place while the fermentation continues and builds considerable pressure inside the containers. After about three days, it's time to refrigerate the bottles, taking care to handle them gently. Don't drop or bump the containers, because the pressure inside a container can cause it to explode. refrigerate the mead for at least a week before drinking it. If you age it for a month, your mead, or meadu, as the Anglo-Saxon-speaking Spear Danes from Mr. Kim's epic holonovel called it, will be enough to turn any logic-spouting Vulcan into a swaggering Klingon thegn full of sound and fury and ready for battle.

Reference:
Information provided by:
Star Trek Cookbook, www.simonsays.com/st, @1999 Pocket Books, Ethan Phillips, William J. Birnes
