FOOD: Organ Stew

How best to serve your enemies, especially to your friends? The Klingons have a unique tradition called organ stew. This wild-game hunter's stew is another complicated dish that will be sure to please at your Klingon parties. It is not for your vegetarian friends, who should have been invited to your Vulcan party, you know, the one where you serve plomeek soup and lots of green leafy things and everyone sits around claiming the other person is illogical.
Unless you personally know the creature who's being consumed, you have to appreciate that Klingon organ stew is the ultimate in galactic recycling. You eat everything: heart, liver, ears, tongue, stomach, tail, skin, but you can make something out of it if you know how to tan and stitch a hide. I've been told that Klingon blue suede moccasins are among the finest in the galaxy, prized possessions handed down through the generations. So if you're going to make organ stew anywhere else but planet Earth, make it out of the innards of an animal whose hide you can use for clothing, shoes, braces, your laptop attache case, anything. This is something the Hirogen might look into someday if they ever get tired of simply hanging their trophies from the walls and ceilings.
My version is a pork stew, and the trick to preparing this dish so that it's edible for humans, or for anyone else this side of the Caretaker's space station, is to cook the toughest organs first until they're nice and soft. Then cook the tender organs, like the liver and heart, seperately. After cooking, you puree the tender organs to make a tick stock for the stew os the ears, tongue, and stomach. the tail meat is very strong, and we use it as flavoring. Any bones you want to use, scrape and wash thoroughly, boil separately, then add at the end as presentation and decoration. The intense meat flavor of this dish is mitigated by the heft pasilla chili pepper and the 2 or 3 large juicy tomatoes. If you want to prepare this with an American Southwestern flavor, add green chilies to the stew. If you want a strong Central American flavor, add more garlic and gorund pumpkin seeds.
1/2 pound pork liver
1/2 pound pork heart
1/2 pound pig's ears
1/2 pound pork meat such as a roast
1/2 pound pork tongue
1/2 pound pork stomach
1/2 pound pigtails
2 tablespoons olive oil
2 large tomatoes, chopped
1 whole pasilla (chili pepper), seeded and chopped
1 medium onion, chopped
6 tortillas, lightly toasted
4 ounces ground pumpkin seeds
1 teaspoon powdered garlic
1 teaspoon thyme
salt and pepper to taste
Begin by cleaning the ears, stomach, and tail thoroughly, scraping off all the veins, waste, and blood. Cover them with water. Then boil them for at least 2 to 3 hours or until they become tender, skimming continually to remove scum and crud from the surface of the water. After they've cooked, discard the water and dry the organs. Next, puree 1/2 the liver with the olive oil and cook in s saucepan with the dry organs until lightly browned. remove from heat and save. Now place the remaining liver, heart, and tongue, cover with water and cook for about 1 hour. Drain the water. While your soft organs are cooking, in a saucepan and the seasonings, vegetables, and tomatoes and just enough water to cover, and simmer for about 1 hour. When your liver and soft organs and vegetable sauce are done, combine them with the hard organs. Add a few teaspoons of water, if necessary, to thin the sauce, and simmer for about 1 hour. Make sure that the flavors have blended and that all of the organs are tender. Correct the seasoning with additional salt and pepper and even some Tabasco, according to your own tastes. This can serve 6 hearty Klingons who like to dip their tortillas or even wrap tortillas around the stew.

Reference:
Information provided by:
ST Cookbook, www.simonsays.com/st, @1999 Pocket Books, Ethan Phillips, William J. Birnes
