FOOD: Parthas

A vegetable native to Acamar III, similar to Terran brussels sprouts. To serve you can cut off the tops and stems, slit them lengthwise on a diagonal, and boil them for about 15 minutes. After boiling, you can reserve the water and use it to make a sauce out of any canned condensed cheese, celery, asparagus, or even mushroom soup. Add only 1/4 cup of the brussels sprouts water to 1/4 cup of whole milk and 11.5 ounces of the condensed soup. Heat through and pour over the brussels sprouts.
Steamed or boiled you can serve either buttered or topped with grated Parmesan, Pecorino, Reggiano, or Romano cheese. You can even use a cheddar cheese sauce, but I wouldn't combine it with a sauce made from asparagus, celery, or mushroom soup. You can also serve brussels sprouts with a combination cheddar and Monterey cheeses for a Mexican version of parthas.

Parthas a la Yuta
Part of the job of a Starfleet captain is the endless diplomacy necessary to win the friendship and cooperation of life-forms on strange new worlds. It was for this reason, I believe, that Commander Riker was always willing to extend himself, as was shown on several missions. The commander would spend countless hours trying to understand these new life-forms, by getting to know members of the delegation personally. Typical of Riker's preparation for command were his dealings with the lovely aide to the Acamarian sovereign. In honor of the sovereign's aide, Commander Riker prepared a dish of parthas, green vegetables similar to the kind that grow on Earth, and named for the dish after Yuta. You can make Parthas a la Yuta yourself by substituting brussels sprouts for parthas. Yuta liked her parthas steamed. You can steam brussels sprouts easily by cutting off the stems and tops and steaming them in a steamer of in a pot of boiling water with a steaming rack for at least 15 minutes or until they're tender.

Reference: The Vengeance Factor
Information provided by:
Star Trek Cookbook, www.simonsays.com/st, @1999 Pocket Books, Ethan Phillips, William J. Birnes
