FOOD: Pasta al Fiorella

Like his predecessors on the Enterprise bridge crew, La Forge was in love with his engines and sought refuge there when romance escaped him. But he was a man who lived his pasta, and that made him a man after my own heart. A person I would indeed like to cook for one day, especially to prepare for him my own version of his very, very favorite dish, pasta al fiorella. Here is an all-in-one meal that is just what it calls itself, pasta with little flowers. Can you eat flowers? Sure you can, and you find them at your local supermarket in the "this-is-for-yuppie-brokers-only" produce section. Next trip, scoop out hefty portions from the edible flowers bin and plan to make pasta al fiorella that night. You start with a nice pesto sauce. Here's what I do:

1 pound angel-hair pasta
1 pound spinach
2 small onions, chopped
2 cups edible flowers such as violets, pansies, or daisies
1/2 cup chopped black olives
1/2 cup grated Romano cheese or Pecorino cheese
2 1/4 tablespoons virgin olive oil
4 cloves garlic, sliced

Begin by cooking your angel-hair pasta, but test it frequently for al dente because angel-hair cooks in nanoseconds. Don't let it get too soft because the pasta's texture is important for this recipe. In a medium saucepan also cook your spinach in just enough water to cover the leaves and cook for 5 minutes on medium heat. When spinach is done, drain it and run it through your food processor with a tablespoon of olive oil so that it is coarsely chopped. Now heat the garlic and onions in another tablespoon of oil in a skillet. Just as they begin to sizzle, add the spinach and the remaining 1/4 teaspoon of oil and half of your cheese, and stir until the cheese melts through and you have a soft pesto sauce. When the pasta is done, drain it and pour the pesto sauce over the pasta and toss. Now add the rest of the cheese and toss again. Finally, wash your flowers and add them to the pasta, reserving some of the petals as a garnish, and toss thoroughly. Serve with a very sharp Italian white wine. Serves a very romantic two.

Reference: Galaxy's Child
Information provided by:
Star Trek Cookbook, www.simonsays.com/st, @1999 Pocket Books, Ethan Phillips, William J. Birnes
