FOOD: pasta boudin

A Terran dish on the menu at Sisko's Creole Kitchen in New Orleans, Louisiana, Earth. 

1/2 pound Klingon blood sausage, or Creole sausage, or Italian hot sausage, cooked and sliced or left whole
1 pound linguini
6 cloves garlic, crushed
1/2 cup grated Romano cheese
1/4 cup ( 1/2 stick) butter, sliced
1/8 cup olive oil
1 teaspoon dried parsley
pepper to taste

At Sisko's, Joseph Sisko prepares a traditional French Creole dish, boudin sausage, or blood sausage, over whatever pasta is his favorite for the day. Some days it's angel-hair, others it's linguini, one time Papa Sisko even experimented with fettucini, but that was only because he wanted to try out a new cream sauce and put the boudin sausage on the side. His son, Benjamin, prepares his pasta boudin with linguini ripping with garlic because he likes his Klingon blood sausage nice and spicy.
To make this dish at home for yourself, start with about 1/2 pound of sausage and set it aside. Then begin cooking the linguini, and while the water's boiling slice the butter, put the oilice oil in a cup, and peel the garlic cloves that you will crush between spoons or in a garlic press. Also grate the cheese in advance. The secret to making great pasta boudin is that all the flavors come together in about 60 seconds, so you have to work fast.
As soon as the pasta's al dente, drain it and stir through a smidgen of olive oil so the noodles don't stick. Put it into a large bowl and immediately stir through the remaining olive oil and the garlic, so that it melts and coats. Then stir through the butter and cheese; top with parsley and pepper. When it's just a tick shy of creamy, stir in the sausage and serve. You can also serve the blood sausage on the side. Serves four to six.

Reference: Paradise Lost 
Information provided by:
The Continuum, www.startrek.com, @2002 2006 CBS Studios, Paramount Pictures
The Cookbook, www.simonsays.com/st, @1999 Pocket Books, Ethan Phillips, William J. Birnes
