FOOD: Plomeek soup

A traditional Vulcan soup (pronounced "PLOH-meek") which Chapel tried to serve Spock during the onset of his pon-farr; she got the bowl thrown at her for her trouble, creating a public scene in the corridor. Quark included it among the meal prepared in vain to romance the Vulcan woman Sakonna of the Maquis. (He betrayed his quick study, however, by pronouncing it "PLOW-meek"). At the Replimat, Bashir also once enjoys the some with a touch of basil. Neelix served Tuvok a bowl - but he couldn't resist tinkering with even that Vulcan standard. 
Neelix- "This is the ultimate Vulcan recipe, spoon-fed to Mr. Spock himself by Nurse Chapel. I tried my hand at a Plomeek recipe for Tuvok once. He said it was too spicy. The next time I prepared it, I left out the Bothan fire beans. There are actually so many variations for Plomeek soup that I'm thinking of writing a book entitled Plomeek Soup for the Vulcan Soul.
For the original Plomeek soup, you can get that nice orangey hue and deep vegetable fragrance with a delightful variety of Korean squash called kabocha, which you can probably find at Asian groceries or thoroughly committed veggie markets. The texture and tastiness of the soup is provided by white beans, green beans, and zucchini squash.

1 cup of dried white beans
6 1/2 cups water
1 large onion, chopped
1 bay leaf
1 kabocha squash, cut and peeled
1/2 pound green beans, cut in half
1 small zucchini squash, cut into pieces
1/2 pound cooked spinach
2 tablespoons minced garlic or cloves chopped
1 tablespoon curry powder
1 teaspoon nutmeg

You will need to prepare your beans by covering them with water in a large pot and allowing to soak for approximately 8 hours in order to soften them. Next, drain the beans and in a large saucepan, boil the beans in five cups water with onion and bay leaf for approximately 1 hour or until they are very soft.
Now add 1 1/2 cups water to bean mixture and add the squashes, green beans, garlic, curry, and nutmeg. Cook for at least 30 minutes as the soup becomes a nice healthy orange and the squash becomes tender. Add the spinach and cook for another 15 minutes. The soup is a meal in itself. Serves two to four hearty eaters.

16 ounces pumpkin
1 small zucchini squash
1 sweet potato
whole milk
butter
salt and pepper to taste
1/2 cup light cream
cinnamon to taste

You can also make a much simpler and sweeter version of Plomeek soup in your electric food processor by blending 16 ounces of unsweetened whole pumpkin with a small cooked zucchini squash and a cooked sweet potato until you have a paste. Add whole milk and butter, salt and pepper, to taste, and heat it in a medium-sized saucepan until the flavors blend. Just before serving, add a 1/2 cup of light cream and stir through. You can also add cinnamon. Serves for to six.

Spock's passion for plomeek soup is legendary throughout Starfleet, mainly because he once hurled a bowl of it at Nurse Chapel. All Vulcans love plomeek soup. That's why I learned to make it. This version is Captain Kirk's, and it differs from mine in some significant ways. It's a bit creamier and spicier. Whose recipe is more Vulcan, Kirk's or mine? You be the judge. Serve them side by side in a blind taste test.

1 cup finely chopped onion
5 cups chopped celery
4 cups peeled and chopped carrots
1 cup (2 sticks) butter
4 cups chicken broth
1/2 cup heavy cream (optional)
1 teaspoon ground pepper
salt to taste

In a heavy 8 quart soup pot, saute the chopped onions very slowly in 1/2 cup butter. When onions are transparent, add the remaining 1/2 cup butter and the carrots. Let carrots brown on low heat for approximately 30 minutes. Once carrots have browned, add all of the celery and continue cooking on low for approximately 10 minutes to allow celery to soften. Next, add the broth, pepper, and salt, and then stir through. Cover and let soup simmer for approximately 1 hour.
When ready, you can either add cream or serve as is. If you decide to serve the soup with cream, you can either add the 1/2 cup cream to the pot, stir, and let heat for another 5 minutes, or you can let your guests spoon the cream into their bowls individually. Serves eight.

Reference: The Maquis
Plomeek to me [Alan Sims] is a celery-based soup. Start with celery stock. I add food-processed carrot for an orange tint and squash for texture. You can also use canned pumpkin blended with food-processed carrot; run light cream through it, and serve it either hot or cold.
Information provided by:
The Continuum, www.startrek.com, @2002 2006 CBS Studios, Paramount Pictures
The Encyclopedia, www.simonsays.com.st, @1997 Pocket Books, Michael & Denise Okuda, Debbie Mirek
The Cookbook, www.simonsays.com/st, @1999 Pocket Books, Ethan Phillips, William J. Birnes
