FOOD: Potato Salad

There are numerous varieties of this tuber recipe, all of which are based on the root vegetable, potato. Some of the most noted varieties are Mustard, American, and German versions.
I [Neelix] was fooling around in my waurters one night, working with an ionic pluto-telereceptor, a device that disencrypts all kinds of ancient transmissions and then displays them on an orbit monitor. You wouldn't believe the things that are out there! I've spent hours watching the oddest stuff that kept me entraced! But something from Earth's late-twentieth-century television broadcasting format particularly intrigued me, a linear comic, two-dimensional tale called  a "sitcom", short for situation comedy, with the title of Benson. Very amusing, especially a character named Pete. What a handsome, amusing, intelligent person! Another player struck me as well, the one who performed the character of Clayton. A very solid performance. Anyway, one night I happened upon an event, a documentary, about Scandinavia, a small country on Earth over hour hundred years ago, and the people there were all blue-eyed with platinum tresses. They reminded me so much of Kes! I wondered if somehow the Ocampans had some ancient connection to this blond race (called Swedes). I decided to make a meal for Kes that originated from this land, just to see if it would tantalize her memory buds. It's called Swedish potato salad, and Kes loved it.

4 cooked medium-sized potatoes, sliced, cold
2 cooked beets, cut in strips
1 head lettuce
1/2 teaspoon vegetable oil
2 egg yolks
salt and pepper to taste
1/2 teaspoon mustard
2 tablespoons chopped fresh parsley
1/2 teaspoon sugar
2 tablespoons vinegar
1/4 cup light cream

To prepare, wash the lettuce and dry it; then cut it into strips and add it to the cut potatoes and beets, mixing them all up in a salad bowl. Make the dressing in another bowl by adding salt, parsley, mustard, and sugar to the egg yolks. While stirring or beating, slowly add the oil, the vinegar, and then the cream, in that order. Pour the dressing over the salad and toss it about. Always make sure to keep eggs chilled, and to prevent spoiling, and possible food poisoning, this dish should be kept chilled, especially in hot climates, like Vulcan. Makes six servings.

Another variety was devised by Kes and I.

3 pounds red potatoes, boiled with their skins on and cubed
8 medium or large hard-boiled eggs
4 stalks celery, thinly sliced
1 large Bermuda onion, diced
2 dill pickles, as fresh as they come, chopped
1 cucumber, cubed
1 cup mayonnaise or light mayonnaise
1 1/2 tablespoons Dijon or Polish mustard
1/4 cup pickle juice
1/4 teaspoon dried dill
paprika to taste and/or garnish

In a small bowl mix mayonnaise, mustard, pickle juice, dill, and four diced boiled eggs. Refrigerate for 2 hours. In a separate bowl, combine cubed potatoes, two copped eggs, thinly sliced celery, diced onion, chopped pickle, and cubed cucumber. Pour mayonnaise mixture over the slices across the top. Sprinkle with paprika to taste and for color, and serve. Serves six.

Reference:
My character, Kes, grew potatoes in her garden, but I also enjoy them in real life. My favorite is a red potato salad/egg salad combination that's light on mayonnaise but spiced with dill pickles and mustard. It's fresh and tastes like summer.
Information provided by:
Star Trek Cookbook, www.simonsays.com/st, @1999 Pocket Books, Ethan Phillips, William J. Birnes
