FOOD: Quadrotriticale Bread

Here's something I researched long and hard in Starfleet records because it's always been such a mystery to me. Just what is quadrotriticale, really? Certainly Federation Undersecretary of Agricultural Affairs Baris knew that the especially hardy grain was a lifesaver. The hybrid blend of wheat and rye, particularly resistant to all kinds of blights and diseases, could save the population of an entire planet or even a solar system. So when the Klingon spy, Arne Darvin, posing as an assistant to Undersecretary Baris, poisoned the quadrotriticale to undermine the Federation's rescue mission, you knew the stuff had to be valuable. Poor tribbles. For furry little creatures that reproduced, purred, and gave out nothing but love, except to Klingons, dying from poisoned quadrotriticale was a fate they didn't deserve. Maybe that's why I've always had a soft spot for tribbles and, as a cook, for the grain they consumed with such passion.
Have a tribble party with your own bread replicators by making a triticale bread. Getting the flour won't be easy because most stores don't carry the specialized product. You'll have to find it in one of the many bread-machine catalogs currently available. If you can't find it, here's a straight-up recipe for a bread machine rye-wheat bread that will approximate what Captain Kirk 's own quadrotriticale bread, with Rigelian butter, may have tasted like. It's a bit odd, but then so was Darvin.
This is a basic recipe for a one-pound loaf that you can modify for any automatic bread machine, along with optional ingredients for the different versions I like to prepare. In my twist, I use sesame oil, by the way, instead of vegetable oil or live oil, to give my bread a snappy Bajoran flavor- just the way you'd find it, I'm told by those who know, at Quark's Bar, Grill, Gaming House, and Holosuite Arcade (we'll just call it Quark's)- on Deep Space 9. If you want an Enterprise-D variation, the kind favored by Commander Troi, you should use olive oil and maybe throw in 1 1/2 cups of pressed black olives complete with their juices.

1 cup water
1 1/2 tablespoons cooking oil (vegetable, olive, sesame, etc)
1 1/2 tablespoons honey
1 cup unbleached all-purpose flour
1 cup whole wheat flour
1 cup rye flour
2 tablespoons powdered notfat dry milk
2 1/2 teaspoons active dry yeast (breadmaker's yeast)
OPTIONS
2 teaspoons chopped black olives
2 teaspoons pine nuts
2 teaspoons rye seeds
2 teaspoons rosemary needles

Following the instructions for your bread machine, combine all of the ingredients, except any olives or nuts, in your bread machine's baking pan. Some machines require you to add the dry ingredients first, and oil and water afterwards. Follow those instructions. When the ingredients are combined, follow the normal baking instructions for your machine, making sure that if you are adding any of the optional items that you add them to the fruit and nut dispenser according to your machine's instructions or toward the final half-hour of the baking cycle.
As an alternative to using a bread-machine recipe, you can also mix any whole wheat and rye flours in the "quick bread" mixes you can find on supermarket selves, which don't require an automatic bread machine and can be baked in a regular or even toaster oven. Each product has its own baking instructions. I suggest you follow the instructions for the whole wheat bread, even though you will be baking with half whole wheat and half rye flour to achieve that pungent yet winsome quadrotriticale taste that so intoxicated Kirk and the Enterprise crew; everybody, that is, except Darvin and the Klingons, particularly after Scotty beamed the whole mess of tribbles onto the departing Klingon warship.

Reference: The Trouble With Tribbles, Trials and Tribble-ations, More Tribbles, More Troubles
Information provided by:
Star Trek Cookbook, www.simonsays.com/st, @1999 Pocket Books, Ethan Phillips, William J. Birnes
Star Trek in Sound & Vision, www.stinsv.com, @2003 Dave & Richard
