FOOD: Romulan mollusks

An edible sea creature native to Romulus; a noted and likely expensive delicacy. Quark serves an entre of jumbo Romulan mollusks to romance in vain the Vulcan female Maquis member Sakonna, noting they aren't available on Vulcan anymore. 
Neelix- "Low on Vulcan mollusks? Try the Romulan variety. They're much bigger and only a tad tougher than the Vulcan. Romulans and Vulcans are cousins, you understand, probably having descended from common ancestry. But sometimes shipments from Romulus are slow and you have to improvise. In that instance, I suggest good old-fashioned cold-water oysters. Serve them fresh and raw for your Klingon friends, dipped in a cornmeal-and-beer batter and fried on a skillet for Cardassians, and boiled in beer, put back in the shell and baked with spinach, bacon, and bread crumbs for any Romulans with whom you have the pleasure of dining. For fried oysters you'll need the following:
12 oysters, shucked
2 cups cornmeal
1/4 cup all-purpose flour
1/4 cup milk
12 ounces beer
1/2 cup butter, melted
Tabasco, pepper, red pepper, and salt to taste
Combine cornmeal with flour, salt, and pepper; add beer and milk to form a thick batter. Wash oysters and dip into cornmeal batter, then fry in melted butter in a skillet. Sprinkle with red pepper, salt, and Tabasco to taste. Serve steaming hot for 2.
Oysters Baked on the Shell
12 oysters, shucked
8 ounces creamed spinach
1/2 pound bacon
1 teaspoon parsley
1 teaspoon Worcestershire sauce
1 teaspoon Tabasco sauce
1 teaspoon lemon juice
Preheat oven to 450 degrees. Shuck and clean oysters, then clean the shells because you'll use them again. Spoon a dollop of creamed spinach into each shell and top with an oyster. Top the oyster with a square of bacon and sprinkle with Worcestershire sauce, lemon juice, and Tabasco. Bake for 10 minutes and then broil for about 5 minutes in a broiler on high. Sprinkle a pinch of parsley over each oyster just prior to serving. You can also heat very coarsely ground salt in a baking tray and serve the shells on the salt. Serves 2 - 3.

Reference: The Maquis
Information provided by:
The Continuum, www.startrek.com, @2002 2006 CBS Studios, Paramount Pictures
The Cookbook, www.simonsays.com/st, @1999 Pocket Books, Ethan Phillips, William J. Birnes
