FOOD: Samarian Sunset

A clear-colored beverage that, when prepared in the "traditional style," erupts into a mid-glass swirl of green and orange when its container is vibrated with a ping.. Lieutenant Commander Data once prepared one for Lieutenant Commander Deanna Troi to pay his bet for losing a tri-dimensional chess game. Quark and Natima Lang shared them during their romance, too. 
When Neelix read about how Data treated Deanna Troi to a Samarian Sunset after she beat him at 3-D chess, it was the beauty and fascination of the drink that impressed him almost as much as its taste. This was a beverage that changed color from clear to a glorious sunset orange. There are so many versions of this drink that you prepare in your own nonreplicator kitchens that you almost don't need me to tell you how. Nevertheless, nothing stops Neelix from his appointed rounds, so he worked up a version of this beverage for those of you fortunate enough to have juicers. For those of you who don't, you can probably get a similar visual effect by stirring up your own "instant" breakfast drink.
In your electric juicer, extract the juice of 2 apples and a whole chunk of ginger. Pretty zingy all by itself. Now, hold your glass beneath the juice fountain and grind up at least 3 carrots. Magically, the liquid in the glass turns from a pale opacity to a bright orange. Drink it and take off. You start your day off with this and you won't come to a stop until you hit the wall. They'll have to build you a bigger cubicle at the reconfigurable loft they call an office. Neelix once served this to Tuvok and he almost laughed. Neelix could hardly wait to slip a glass of this to Seven of Nine and see what she does to poor Ensign Harry Kim. I don't know whatever happened to Troi after she drank this, except that she carried on an affair with Lieutenant Worf.

Reference: Paradise Lost 
Information provided by:
The Continuum, www.startrek.com, @2002 2006 CBS Studios, Paramount Pictures
The Cookbook, www.simonsays.com/st, @1999 Pocket Books, Ethan Phillips, William J. Birnes
