FOOD: Senarian Egg Broth

A medicinal soup programmed into the Ops replicator, good for keeping up stamina. It was known to Mareel but not Chief Miles O'Brien when she brought him a bowl while he lay wounded after the initial attempt to hijack the Dax symbiont. 
Keiko O'Brien and Miles are soup fans and love the swirling magic Senarian egg broth. You can make two versions of this soup yourself: one is a standard chicken egg-drop soup, and the other is a spinach-and-chicken-broth egg-drop soup. Both are very quick soups to make if you use already prepared ingredients, such as frozen spinach and canned chicken broth.
16 ounces clear chicken broth
1 egg, well beaten
1/4 cup lemon juice (optional)
1/2 cup spinach, finely chopped (optional)
1/4 butter (optional)
1 small chopped onion (optional)
Heat chicken broth to boiling and reduce to simmer. Simmer for about 5 minutes, and beat the egg in a separate bowl, thoroughly combining yolk and the white. Now, while stirring the soup, very slowly pour in the egg so that it barely dribbles into the soup and forms a long spiraling string as you stir. The trick is not to combine the egg and the soup but to get the egg to hang in a suspension. For a Greek version, you can add the lemon juice now. When egg is suspended in long filaments, carefully spoon or ladle the soup into bowls for serving.
For a spinach version, saute the vegetable in a saucepan with about 1/4 butter and chopped onion. When spinach is tender, remove from pan and process it in a food processor or blender so that it's almost pureed. Return to saucepan over low heat and add chicken stock. Bring up to boiling, simmer for 10 minutes, and then slowly add the beaten egg until it swirls. Again, you can add lemon juice for a Greek version of this soup. Serves 4.
 
Reference: Invasive Procedures 
Information provided by:
The Continuum, www.startrek.com, @2002 2006 CBS Studios, Paramount Pictures
The Cookbook, www.simonsays.com/st, @1999 Pocket Books, Ethan Phillips, William J. Birnes
