FOOD: Spiny Lobe-Fish

If there was a lasting repercussion from the torture Commander Riker underwent by the doctors on Tilonus IV, who convinced him for a while that he was being treated at the Institute for Mental Disorders, it was the image of the terrifying spiny lobe-fish that still haunted his dreams. Being a Talaxian and a born trader in delicacies- some edible, some not- I've always felt that you can defeat your demons if you can eat your demons. Accordingly, had I been the chef and morale officer on the Enterprise-D, I would have concocted a dish with those gruesome spiny lobe-fish and served it to Riker, en brochette. I am on Voyager, however, cruising through a quadrant thousands of miles away from the Enterprise, wherever she may be, and Riker's not here. But here's the same dish.

2 pounds meaty white- or gray-fleshed fish fillets, like cod or monkfish, cut into thick slices
2 cups dry red wine (Burgundy, Bordeaux, or Merlot)
1 large carrot, sliced
1 medium sized onion, sliced
2 cloves garlic, halved
1/4 cup ( 1/2 stick) butter, melted
1/4 cup olive oil
2 tablespoons sifted all-purpose flour
2 teaspoon salt
1 teaspoon pepper
1/2 teaspoon rosemary
1/2 teaspoon thyme

You will need a heavy skillet or fish-frying pan, with a tight cover, like a flat or oblong Le Creuset or something similar. Clean and slice your fish and arrange in the skillet. Add the wine, carrot, onion, garlic, herbs, salt, and pepper and bring to a boil. When it reaches a boil, cook the fish for about 20 minutes until the fish pieces become flaky and soft. Remove them and set aside. In a separate small skillet combine the melted butter, olive oil, and flour, and while stirring, heat them for about 10 minutes, until the ingredients form a soft sauce. Combine with fish liquid, stirring rapidly over medium heat until the sauce thickens. Boil for about 1 minute. Pour over the fish and serve. Serves four to six.
If you wish to serve this the way I would, en brochette, you will only cook the fish for 15 minutes instead of 20 and prepare the rest of the dish according to the recipe. However, use the sauce as a marinade, place the tick pieces of fish on kabob skewers or swords, and complete your cooking over an open fire or barbecue. This is a blackened version of the recipe.
If you're serving this dish for a horde of Klingons, replace the fish with a nice fresh or smoked eel and cook over open fire. You'll have to increase the initial cooking time for the eel to at least 30 minutes, marinate, then barbecue.

Reference: Force of Nature
Information provided by:
Star Trek Cookbook, www.simonsays.com/st, @1999 Pocket Books, Ethan Phillips, William J. Birnes
