FOOD: Tea Sandwiches

When it's time for afternoon tea, it's also time for those delightful little tidbits that accompany tea, such as sandwiches, canapes, and cakes. Typically, for what the British call "low tea," Captain Picard might put out a tray of replicated scones or crumpets with clotted cream (also called Devonshire cream and available at many supermarkets) and preserves, tea sandwiches, and petit fours or other finger-sized desserts, such as mini truffles, bite-sized cookies, brownies, napoleons, and heavenly chocolate-dipped strawberries. The point of all these foods is that they should be literally finger foods- no sloppy dressings to spoil the tea gown or splatter the hat- and have a variety of textures, have some color from either the garnishes or the foods themselves, and be served on fine china.
At teatime, Captain Picard like his tea sandwiches, most of which have sweet, or unsalted, butter on both pieces of the bread to keep the innards moist. This is unnecessary if you're using a chicken salad or other filing made with a dressing or mayonnaise. Watercress is surprisingly spicy and interesting and is the basis for the watercress sandwich, known far and wide as a teatime food. Captain Janeway grew up on watercress sandwiches, she never tires of telling me, as if just by repeating it I'll get the hint. I get it. It's just that when Kes disappeared, I had to figure out how to grow watercress in her airponics garden. You can make a wonderful watercress sandwich by mixing 1 cup of loosely packed watercress, stems removed, with 8 ounces of cream cheese. Blend them together and you'll get a pretty green mixture that is divine as a filling by itself. A Bajoran watercress hasperat uses the same filling layers between a rolled up tortilla.

Here are some possible fillings for tea sandwiches:
Chicken almond salad
2 tablespoons mayonnaise
1/4 cup chopped blanched almonds
1 cup chopped cooked chicken breast
salt, pepper, and paprika to taste

Sliced tomatoes (Romas or plum tomatoes work best)
salt to taste
lightly buttered bread

Sliced cucumbers
buttered bread or mayonnaise coated bread

Smoked Salmon
with or without capers
buttered bread

Egg Salad
gruyere cheese
sliced mango

Sandwiches must be filled before the crusts are cut off. For visual interest, if for no other reason, they can be cut into triangles, squares, or rectangles. For an added twist, use on slice of brown bread and one of white. Also, you can dip the edges of sandwiches in chopped dill, parsely, or similar herbs. This is not only pretty but adds a little "oomph." If you're like me and have all the time in the world to roam around the galley of a starship, you can also wrap your low-tea sandiwches with the green parts of scallions that have been blanced in boiling water for about 20 to 30 seconds, then cooled and dried. Simply wrap the sandwich like a package, no bow necessary. They're edible, but most people, especially the utilitarian Vulcans I have to deal with, cut them off like a bunch of spoilsports. Edible flowers, particularly masturtiums, are great; they''e peppery, so they'' be good with egg salad. They can be used in the sandwich itself or as a garnish.

Reference:
Information provided by:
Star Trek Cookbook, www.simonsays.com/st, @1999 Pocket Books, Ethan Phillips, William J. Birnes
