FOOD: tea, Earl Grey

A tea blend named for an Old Earth British nobleman was Captain Jean-Luc Picard's favorite hot beverage. In 2365 he ordered a cup from his Ready Room replicator and got a potted plant instead, an early sign of the Iconian's shipboard computer virus. Picard's favorite was even known to Duras' scheming sisters during the Klingon civil war, probably thanks to Romulan intelligence, and was another personal secret Lieutenant Commander Data told Kamala, the metamorph. Picard also offered some to Admiral Hanson upon his first visit aboard, on the eve of the Battle of Wolf 359. 
Neelix- "So who was this guy Earl Grey and how did he and Captain Picard get to know each other? That's what I wanted to find out after reading the replicator logs and seeing that all Picard seemed to drink at breakfast, before bedtime, and at just about every crisis was a cup of this guy's tea. Never one to sit still for a mystery, I investigated what relationship might have existed between Earl Grey and the captain. Guess what? The two of them lived almost six hundred Earth years apart and Earl Grey had nothing whatsoever to do with Starfleet. He was actually Charles, the second Earl Grey, prime minister of a country called England from 1830 to 1834.
It seems that one of the earl's envoys saved the life of an important Chinese mandarin, who rewarded the earl by sending him a delightful tea flavored by the ancient Canton orange. By the time it was marketed in England, Earl Grey tea, as it came to be known, was made with a combination of black teas from India and China, usually Keemum and Assam, flavored with the oil of the bergamot and the widespread marketing of this tea began when the earl, addicted to the tea, asked the venerable house of Twinings to re-create some for him. It did, using the bergamot instead of the Canton orange, and thus was history made. Today, you can find Earl Grey tea not only from Twinings but from a variety of tea victuallers because Twining neglected to patent the formula it used to recreate the tea the earl so loved. This tea became the favorite of Captain Picard, who liked it straight and hot, and I've used it to create a number of recipes I think you'll like.

Reference: Remember Me, Contagion, The Best of Both Worlds, The Perfect Mate, Reunion
Information provided by:
The Continuum, www.startrek.com, @2002 2006 CBS Studios, Paramount Pictures
The Cookbook, www.simonsays.com/st, @1999 Pocket Books, Ethan Phillips, William J. Birnes
