FOOD: tuwaly pie

A Bajoran desert served at the Shakaar resistance cell "reunion" in Shakaar's farm kitchen in 2371. 
Neelix- "This is a Bajoran dessert that's more of a staple than a delicacy. I mean, for a cook, everything is a delicacy, because the trickier it is to get the ingredients to make it, the greater the praise heaped upon you when the dish is set before the mess. However, not even I can claim that tuwaly pie is anything more than it really is, the best darned coconut cream pie in the entire galaxy.
Filling
2 cups milk
1 cup shredded coconut
3/4 cup sugar
1/3 cup sifted all-purpose flour
1/2 teaspoon salt
2 eggs, slightly beaten
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
Pie Batter
1 cup sugar
1/2 (1 stick) butter
2 eggs
1 3/4 cups sifted all-purpose flour
1/2 cup milk
2 1/2 cups teaspoons baking powder
1/2 teaspoon salt
Packaged pastry piecrust or packaged graham cracker pie shell
Preheat oven to 350 degrees while you prepare the cream filling. In a medium-sized bowl, combine sugar, flour, and salt. Next beat the eggs and combine with the dry ingredients. Next, scald the milk- in other words, heat to just short of boiling so that a thin film appears on the sides of the pan, but don't boil. When it is scalded, stir the milk into the ingredients in the bowl. Now put the mixture in a saucepan and cook over very low heat for about 15 minutes, adding the vanilla and the shredded coconut. When the mixture has thickened, set aside and allow to cool while you prepare the batter for the cream pie.
Combine the sugar, flour, salt, and baking powder in a small mixing bowl first; then add eggs, butter, and milk. I like graham cracker crust pie shells best, so pour half the batter into one crust and the rest into one greased pie tin, and bake them for 30 minutes. Remove them from the oven, let cool for 5 minutes, and then pour the coconut cream filing into the pie shell. Return to oven, and bake for another 10 minutes. Remove from oven, let cool and refrigerate for 2 hours.

Reference: Shakaar 
Information provided by:
The Continuum, www.startrek.com, @2002 2006 CBS Studios, Paramount Pictures
The Cookbook, www.simonsays.com/st, @1999 Pocket Books, Ethan Phillips, William J. Birnes
