FOOD: uttaberry crepes

A pastry, made with the Betazed fruit, that was offered on the Quark's menu in 2369. Sisko abortively ordered it with Alterian chowder. 
Neelix- "Uttaberries come from the planet Betazed and are a favorite of the natives there. How they turned up in Quark's, I'll never know, but Quark had a great recipe for crepes prepared with uttaberries that Sisko simply devoured. Harry Kim told me that uttaberries bore a remarkable resemblance to and tasted just like the blueberries you can get on Earth. Harry remembered eating blueberries fresh, packed in those cute little wooden boxes, from the neighborhood markets in San Francisco. I imagine you can get them anywhere. Crepes are also very easy to make, whether you use the recipe you can find on the boxes of instant pancake batter or make them the way the French use to.

1 cup all-purpose flour
1 cup whole milk
3 eggs, beaten
1/4 cup granulated sugar
2 tablespoons butter, melted
1 teaspoon grated orange, or lemon rind, or 1/4 teaspoon orange or lemon extract
1/2 teaspoon vanilla extract
1 pinch of salt
confectioner's sugar to dust finished crepes
2 cups fresh blueberries or uttaberries, washed
1/4 cup additional sugar
2 tablespoons water

Wash the berries thoroughly. Place them in a bowl with the water and 1/4 cup sugar and let set to sweeten and make a simple compote. While you're gently melting the butter, combine the flour, salt, and granulated sugar in a medium-sized bowl and set aside. Make sure the butter doesn't burn; remove from heat. Let it cool. Beat the eggs and milk together, and then beat in the cooled melted butter. Now add the extracts and/or rinds. Beat until smooth and then combine with the flour mixture, continuing to beat, even with your hand mixer until smooth.
Lightly butter and heat a small skillet or a crepe pan, and pour in just enough batter to cover the bottom. It should be a light, thin layer, and you should rock the skillet back and forth to make sure the layer is an even depth. Just as it begins to set, spoon in the berries to form a thin line down the middle of the crepe. As the edges of the crepe brown, quickly flip each side over the middle to wrap the berries, the flip the entire crepe over and set aside on a warm platter. Dust each crepe with confectioner's sugar and serve plain, with ice cream, with cream, or even a touch of honey. Yield one dozen crepes.

Reference: Armageddon Game 
Information provided by:
The Continuum, www.startrek.com, @2002 2006 CBS Studios, Paramount Pictures
The Cookbook, www.simonsays.com/st, @1999 Pocket Books, Ethan Phillips, William J. Birnes
