FOOD: vermicula

Fishlike waterborne organisms about 3 to 5 inches long that provide the main food source for Antedians. The two delegates attending the Pacifica conference in 2365 hungrily slurped them up from a container upon awakening from their self-induced trance for warp travel. Much like sardines of Earth.
While this is a dish native to Antede III, Worf, like many other Klingons has acquired a taste for it. Klingons serve it as a change of pace from gagh because the texture of the live worms is very different. Gagh are thickish serpent worms, while vermicula are lighter and thinner. I guess you have to be a Klingon to appreciate the difference. I've always maintained when serving up Klingon worm dishes that the proof is in the wriggling. The little ones seem to be a lot more animated, especially if you scoop them right out of the nest.
Cooking Klingon on Earth, I like white soba noodles or, for a lighter taste, ramen noodles. Follow the package directions, drain, and chill. Combine sesame seed salad (or tahini) dressing with teriyaki and soy sauce in equal parts and stir them through the noodles. Top wither with raw clams, oysters, or mussels out of their shells, or even better, with raw squid sliced lengthwise, or smoked eel also sliced lengthwise not too thin and draped over the side. Forget the chopsticks. This is eel or squid sashimi that you can eat Klingon style- by hand.

Reference: Manhunt 
If you use raw or live shellfish, please remember that they are highly perishable foods and spoil very rapidly. They can contaminate the foods they come in contact with, particularly if they're all on the same platter or dish. So please don't leave raw or live shellfish sitting on a table for any extended period of time. Keep them under refrigeration until ready to serve. If you are using them as a garnish, I suggest that you place the food you are serving in a clear bowl, and wrap the garnish around the bowl on another dish or platter, so that they do not touch! You can become sich from spoiled shellfish so extra care must be taken.fc
Information provided by:
The Continuum, www.startrek.com, @2002 2006 CBS Studios, Paramount Pictures
The Encyclopedia, www.simonsays.com/st, @1997 Pocket Books, Michael & Denise Okuda, Debbie Mirek
The Cookbook, www.simonsays.com/st, @1999 Pocket Books, Ethan Phillips, William J. Birnes
