FOOD: Vulcan Apple Pastry

These hand-sized little pastries will be your favorite that Vulcans will adore as a quickie hot breakfast or, at room temperature, as a school lunchbox treat. They make great afternoon snacks, too, if your kids have to go from school to a team practice or to an after-school program. If your running around the office to the supermarket to the athletic field to pick up the kids, these make a great snack for you. And they're great between classes or labs on a particularly grueling day when the wind is howling off the lake and you've got to turn in notes that make absolutely no sense to you or to anyone else in your group. They're Vulcan. Think of them as little bites of logic in an otherwise chaotic universe.
Just as Gary Mitchell's Gala Apple or Kaferian Apple pie, you can use a packaged crust as your shell, unless you want to bake the crusts yourself. Your list of ingredients includes the following:

4 cups Gala or Granny Smith apples, peeled, sliced, cored
1/4 cup light brown sugar
1 egg, beaten
1/4 cup melted butter
1 tablespoon lemon juice
1 cup heavy cream
1 teaspoon cinnamon

Preheat your oven to 375 degrees. Line the cups in a greased 2-inch muffin tin with individual muffin-sized shells of crust. Now pour in your sliced apples into the individual shells, filling them just 3/4 full. We need room for the apples to expand. Mix the egg, butter, lemon juice, brown sugar, cream, and cinnamon together, and pour the mixture over the apples. Moisten the edges of each crust and cover each muffin cup with another layer of crust and bake for about 40 minutes or until the top crust is golden. Chill in your refrigerator before you wrap them up in foil for your away mission, or you can serve them still warm. Be careful, however, of serving hot pastries, because the filling, if not given time to cool, can be too hot. Serve warm or chilled. Vulcan pastries are a great dessert, breakfast, or healthy snack. Yields 12.

Reference:
Information provided by:
Star Trek Cookbook, www.simonsays.com/st, @1999 Pocket Books, Ethan Phillips, William J. Birnes
