WEAPONS: Bat'leth

The traditional Klingon "sword of honor," resembling a meter-long two-ended scimitar. A modern sword is typically 116 centimeters long, composed of baakonite metal, and weighs 5.3 kilograms. The bat'leth is carried along inside of the arm and controlled by hand-holds located on the outside edge of the weapon. 
Oral history holds that the first bat'leth was forged about 1,500 years ago when Kahless the Unforgettable dropped a lock of his hair in the lava from the Kri'stak Volcano and then plunged the burning lock into the lake of Lursor and twisted it into a blade. After forging the weapon, he used it to kill the tyrant Molor and naled it the "bet'leth," or sword of honor. This tale of the sword was never recorded in the sacred texts but was passed down verbally among the high clerics. The retelling of the tale was to be a test of Kahless' return, as only he and the high clerics would know the story. (The Story of the Promise)
The bat'leth is a popular sporting weapon too with many competitions being held to gauge a warrior's ability to use it well. Worf entered such contests and has won trophies for his performance. In different quantum realities Worf had won second place, first place, and other standings. He used a bat'leth that had been in his family for ten generations. It is the same weapon that he used to kill Duras after that man had murdered K'Ehlyr. And Worf used that sword to teach Dr. Beverly Crusher the use of Klingon weapons.
The Sword of Kahless was stolen about five centuries after Kahless' death by Hur'q invaders, who plundered the Homeworld. It is said that whoever holds the sword will lead the Klingon people again. After receiving the Shroud, the garment that wrapped the sword, from a Vulcan science team, the Dahar Master Kor came to Deep Space 9 to recruit Worf's help in finding the sword. The Vulcan team had told Kor where the shroud was found and believe it to a world once used by the Hur'q. While Worf, Kor and Jadzia Dax were able to recover the Sword of Kahless, their pursuers, Toral of the Duras family and his henchmen caused disention among the friendly team. Worf wanted to issue to sword to Kahless' clone and Kor wanted to use it to claim a position of leadership himself. The sword caused the two friends to fight until they realized what was happening and decided to beam the sword into open space so that no one else would be able to have the sword either.

Reference: Reunion, Rightful Heir, Blood Oath, The Quality of Life, Blood Oath, The Sword of Kahless
The bat'leth was designed by martial-arts expert & Star Trek visual effects producer Dan Curry, who also helped develop the intricate dance-like movements associated with its use.
Information provided by:
The Continuum, www.startrek.com, @2006 CBS Studios
The Encyclopedia, www.simonsays.com/st, @1997 Pocket Books, Michael & Denise Okuda, Debbie Mirek

