TECHNOLOGY: cloaking device

Technology of Romulan origin, first described in 2266, that can generate an energy screen to render a target object - usually a spacecraft - relatively invisible to sensors. Due to their immense power drain, cloaking generators have usually prohibited simultaneous use of other major systems such as weaponry, shields or warp drive. Although common to Klingon ships as well since the short-lived alliance with Romulus in the 2260s, Federation vessels have agreed to forego use of cloaks under the Treaty of Algeron, except in the case of the U.S.S. Defiant, which utilizes such a device by special arrangement and supplied by the Romulan government. 
In 2298 the Klingon government did test and launch a B'Rel-class bird of prey that was able to fire torpedoes while cloaked. The technology was thwarted when Federation starships, U.S.S. Enterprise-A and U.S.S. Excelsior used nebulas gas sensors fitted onto a torpedo to guide the weapon toward the enemy ship's impulse engine emissions. The two ships were then able to lock onto the explosion from the first weapon.
In 237#, Starfleet Research & Development launched a prototype phased cloak generator aboard the U.S.S. Pegasus, in violation of the Treaty of Algernon. This new variation allowed an equipped ship to not only become invisbile to vision and sensors, but to be able to pass through solid objects. The machine worked but there were problems with controlling the technology. The test vessel uncloaked in the middle of an asteroid. This vessel was discovered by Romulan agents and its unique technology was copied and perfected by the Star Empire.
Starfleet outposts and armadas have learned to detect cloaked vessels by employing a tachyon detection grid between search units. The Jem'Hadar were able to detect cloaked ships by using an anti-proton scan of a suspected area.
Romulan scientists remain the research leaders in developing new versions of cloaking technology. As the technology becomes more understood by their neighbors, newer forms are introduced that are harder to detect than the previous style. Reman scientists were also able to build on Romulan research to create a variation of cloaking technology that was flawless to detection when it was put to use against the U.S.S. Enterprise-E.
The Aldeans have also developed a cloaking technology, one powerful enough to disguise their entire planet, but its harmful radiation sterilized the population. This population decided to stop using its cloak and to accept medical treatment from the United Federation of Planets.
For Klingons, the use of a cloaking device is a prelude to attack. If a ship of the Empire decloaks near a target it is likely to attack. Klingons even created sleeper ships, armed warships that engaged their cloaking devices for a long period while the crew was placed into suspended animation. When they awoke they were to attack all Federation contacts they found. After the alliance between the Klingons and Federation was founded the High Council sent ships to the coordinates where a sleeper ship was scheduled to emerge from its sleep to disarm it before it started a war.
Cloaking devices have also been equipped on items other than ships; like mines. Early Earth exploration discovered planets mined by Romulan forces. One such invisible field was discovered by the Enterprise NX-01. Engineers aboard Deep Space Nine equipped self-replicating, cloaked mines then launched them from the U.S.S. Defiant to block the entrance to the wormhole after the threat from the Dominion forces grew too great. That minefield had to be completely laid out before they could be activated to ensure that all mines were in place. Placement was important since each mine monitored the position of its neighbor to know if it would be needed to replicate a replacement or not. And placing invisible mines could be hazardous to the mine-laying starship if they were active and invisible while the ship was still in close proximity.
Starfleet equipped a holoship with a cloaking device then hit the craft in a lake near the Ba'ku city. 
Personal cloaking vests have been rumored to be in use by "black project" groups in many military and para-military organizations.
Cloaking devices can give off chronometric particles. In 23## particles emitted from the unit installed aboard the U.S.S. Defiant lodged in the ship's ablative armor matrix and caused transporter energy to be redirected through time.

Reference: Balance of Terror, The Search for Spock, The Voyage Home, The Final Frontier, The Undiscovered Country, Encounter at Farpoint, When the Bough Breaks, The Neutral Zone, The Emissary, Yesterday's Enterprise, The Search, Past Tense, A Call to Arms, Sacrifice of Angels, Generations, Insurrection, Star Trek: Nemesis, Minefield, Elite Forces
Information provided by:
The Continuum, www.startrek.com, @2002 2006 CBS Studios, Paramount Pictures
The Encyclopedia, www.simonsays.com/st, @1997 Pocket Books, Michael & Denise Okuda, Debbie Mirek
DS9 Technical Manual, www.simonsays.com/st, @1998 Pocket Books, Michael Okuda, Rick Sternbach, Doug Drexler
Elite Forces, www.activision.com, @2002 Activision
Star Trek in Sound & Vision, www.stinsv.com, @2003 Dave & Richard
